How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman, dropped in the middle of a Forgotten spot in the Caribbean by providence Impoverished, in squalor Grow up to be a hero and a scholar?
The ten-dollar founding father without a father The ten-dollar founding father without a father Got a lot farther by working a lot harder By being a lot smarter By being a self-starter By fourteen, they placed him in charge of a Trading charter
And every day while slaves were being slaughtered and carted And every day while slaves were being slaughtered and carted Away across the waves, he struggled and kept his guard up Inside, he was longing for something to be a part of The brother was ready to beg, steal, borrow, or barter
Then a hurricane came, and devastation reigned Then a hurricane came, and devastation reigned Our man saw his future drip, dripping down the drain Put a pencil to his temple, connected it to his brain And he wrote his first refrain, a testament to his pain
Well, the word got around, they said, “This kid is insane, man” Well, the word got around, they said, “This kid is insane, man” Took up a collection just to send him to the mainland “Get your education, don’t forget from whence you came, and The world is gonna know your name. What’s your name, man?”
Alexander Hamilton Alexander Hamilton My name is Alexander Hamilton And there’s a million things I haven’t done But just you wait, just you wait…
When he was ten his father split, full of it, debt-ridden When he was ten his father split, full of it, debt-ridden Two years later, see Alex and his mother bed-ridden Half-dead sittin' in their own sick, the scent thick
And Alex got better but his mother went quick And Alex got better but his mother went quick
Moved in with a cousin, the cousin committed suicide Moved in with a cousin, the cousin committed suicide Left him with nothin’ but ruined pride, something new inside A voice saying
“You gotta fend for yourself.”	COMPANY “You gotta fend for yourself.”	COMPANY “Alex, you gotta fend for yourself.”
He started retreatin’ and readin’ every treatise on the shelf He started retreatin’ and readin’ every treatise on the shelf
There would have been nothin’ left to do There would have been nothin’ left to do For someone less astute He woulda been dead or destitute Without a cent of restitution Started workin’, clerkin’ for his late mother’s landlord Tradin’ sugar cane and rum and all the things he can’t afford Scammin’ for every book he can get his hands on Plannin’ for the future see him now as he stands on The bow of a ship headed for a new land In New York you can be a new man
Scammin’ Scammin’ Plannin’ Oooh…
In New York you can In New York you can Be a new man— In New York you can Be a new man—
Just you wait! Just you wait! Just you wait!
In New York you can be a new man— In New York you can be a new man—
In New York— In New York—
New York— New York—
Just you wait! Just you wait!
Alexander Hamilton Alexander Hamilton We are waiting in the wings for you You could never back down You never learned to take your time! Oh, Alexander Hamilton When America sings for you Will they know what you overcame? Will they know you rewrote the game? The world will never be the same, oh
The ship is in the harbor now The ship is in the harbor now See if you can spot him Another immigrant Comin’ up from the bottom His enemies destroyed his rep America forgot him	COMPANY Alexander Hamilton Waiting in the wings for you You never learned to take your time! Oh, Alexander Hamilton Alexander Hamilton… America sings for you Will they know what you overcame? Will they know you rewrote the game? The world will never be the same, oh
Just you wait Just you wait
Just you wait Just you wait
We fought with him We fought with him
Me? I died for him Me? I died for him
Me? I trusted him Me? I trusted him
Me? I loved him Me? I loved him
And me? I’m the damn fool that shot him And me? I’m the damn fool that shot him
There’s a million things I haven’t done There’s a million things I haven’t done But just you wait!
What’s your name, man? What’s your name, man?
Alexander Hamilton! Alexander Hamilton!
1776. New York City 1776. New York City
Pardon me. Are you Aaron Burr, sir? Pardon me. Are you Aaron Burr, sir?
That depends. Who’s asking? That depends. Who’s asking?
Oh, well, sure, sir Oh, well, sure, sir I’m Alexander Hamilton, I’m at your service, sir I have been looking for you
I’m getting nervous I’m getting nervous
Sir… Sir… I heard your name at Princeton. I was seeking an accelerated course of study when I got sort of out of sorts with a buddy of yours. I may have punched him. It’s a blur, sir. He handles the financials?
You punched the bursar You punched the bursar
Yes! Yes! I wanted to do what you did. Graduate in two, then join the revolution. He looked at me like I was stupid, I’m not stupid So how’d you do it? How’d you graduate so fast?
It was my parents’ dying wish before they passed It was my parents’ dying wish before they passed
You’re an orphan. Of course! I’m an orphan You’re an orphan. Of course! I’m an orphan God, I wish there was a war! Then we could prove that we’re worth more Than anyone bargained for…
Can I buy you a drink? Can I buy you a drink?
That would be nice That would be nice
While we’re talking, let me offer you some free advice While we’re talking, let me offer you some free advice Talk less
What? What?
Smile more Smile more
Ha Ha
Don’t let them know what you’re against or what you’re for Don’t let them know what you’re against or what you’re for
You can’t be serious You can’t be serious
You wanna get ahead? You wanna get ahead?
Yes Yes
Fools who run their mouths off wind up dead Fools who run their mouths off wind up dead
Yo yo yo yo yo! Yo yo yo yo yo! What time is it?
Show time! Show time!
…like I said… …like I said…
Show time! Show time! Yo! Show time! Show time! Yo! I’m John Laurens in the place to be! Two pints o’ Sam Adams, but I’m workin’ on three, uh! Those redcoats don’t want it with me! Cuz I will pop chick-a pop these cops till I’m free!
Oui oui, mon ami, je m’appelle Lafayette! Oui oui, mon ami, je m’appelle Lafayette! The Lancelot of the revolutionary set! I came from afar just to say “Bonsoir!” Tell the King “Casse toi!” Who’s the best? C’est moi!
Brrrah brraaah! I am Hercules Mulligan Brrrah brraaah! I am Hercules Mulligan Up in it, lovin’ it, yes I heard ya mother said “Come again?”
Ayyyyy Ayyyyy
Lock up ya daughters and horses, of course Lock up ya daughters and horses, of course It’s hard to have intercourse over four sets of corsets…
Wow Wow
No more sex, pour me another brew, son! No more sex, pour me another brew, son! Let’s raise a couple more…
To the revolution! To the revolution!
Well, if it ain’t the prodigy of Princeton college! Well, if it ain’t the prodigy of Princeton college!
Aaron Burr! Aaron Burr!
Give us a verse, drop some knowledge! Give us a verse, drop some knowledge!
Good luck with that: you’re takin’ a stand Good luck with that: you’re takin’ a stand You spit. I’m ‘a sit. We’ll see where we land
Boooo! Boooo!
Burr, the revolution’s imminent. What do you stall for? Burr, the revolution’s imminent. What do you stall for?
If you stand for nothing, Burr, what’ll you fall for? If you stand for nothing, Burr, what’ll you fall for?
Ooh Ooh Who are you?	MULLIGAN Ooh Who are you?	LAFAYETTE Ooh Who are you?
Ooh, who is this kid? What’s he gonna do? Ooh, who is this kid? What’s he gonna do? College I prob’ly shouldn’t brag, but dag, I amaze and astonish The problem is I got a lot of brains but no polish I gotta holler just to be heard With every word, I drop knowledge! I’m a diamond in the rough, a shiny piece of coal Tryin’ to reach my goal. My power of speech: unimpeachable Only nineteen but my mind is older These New York City streets get colder, I shoulder Ev’ry burden, ev’ry disadvantage I have learned to manage, I don’t have a gun to brandish I walk these streets famished The plan is to fan this spark into a flame But damn, it’s getting dark, so let me spell out the name I am the—
E-R—we are—meant to be… E-R—we are—meant to be…
A colony that runs independently A colony that runs independently Meanwhile, Britain keeps shittin’ on us endlessly Essentially, they tax us relentlessly Then King George turns around, runs a spending spree He ain’t ever gonna set his descendants free So there will be a revolution in this century Enter me!
(He says in parentheses) (He says in parentheses)
Don’t be shocked when your hist’ry book mentions me Don’t be shocked when your hist’ry book mentions me I will lay down my life if it sets us free Eventually, you’ll see my ascendancy
And I am not throwing away And I am not throwing away My shot I am not throwing away My shot Hey yo, I’m just like my country I’m young, scrappy and hungry And I’m not throwing away my shot
My shot! My shot! My shot! And I’m not throwing away my shot.
I am not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot Hey yo, I’m just like my country I’m young, scrappy and hungry And I’m not throwing away my shot It’s time to take a shot!
I dream of life without a monarchy I dream of life without a monarchy The unrest in France will lead to ‘onarchy? ‘Onarchy? How you say, how you say, ‘anarchy?’ When I fight, I make the other side panicky With my—
Shot! Shot!
Yo, I’m a tailor’s apprentice Yo, I’m a tailor’s apprentice And I got y’all knuckleheads in loco parentis I’m joining the rebellion cuz I know it’s my chance To socially advance, instead of sewin’ some pants! I’m gonna take a—
Shot! Shot!
But we’ll never be truly free But we’ll never be truly free Until those in bondage have the same rights as you and me You and I. Do or die. Wait till I sally in On a stallion with the first black battalion Have another—
Shot! Shot!
Geniuses, lower your voices Geniuses, lower your voices You keep out of trouble and you double your choices I’m with you, but the situation is fraught You’ve got to be carefully taught: If you talk, you’re gonna get shot!
Burr, check what we got Burr, check what we got Mister Lafayette, hard rock like Lancelot I think your pants look hot Laurens, I like you a lot Let’s hatch a plot blacker than the kettle callin’ the pot… What are the odds the gods would put us all in one spot Poppin’ a squat on conventional wisdom, like it or not A bunch of revolutionary manumission abolitionists? Give me a position, show me where the ammunition is! Oh, am I talkin’ too loud? Sometimes I get over excited, shoot off at the mouth I never had a group of friends before I promise that I’ll make y’all proud
Let’s get this guy in front of a crowd Let’s get this guy in front of a crowd
I am not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot Hey yo, I’m just like my country I’m young, scrappy and hungry And I’m not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot Hey yo, I’m just like my country I’m young, scrappy and hungry And I’m not throwing away my shot
Ev’rybody sing: Ev’rybody sing: Whoa, whoa, whoa Hey! Whoa! Wooh!! Whoa! Ay, let ‘em hear ya! Let’s go! I said shout it to the rooftops! Said, to the rooftops! Come on! Come on, let’s go!	HAMILTON/LAFAYETTE/
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Yea!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Yea!
Rise up! Rise up! When you’re living on your knees, you rise up Tell your brother that he’s gotta rise up Tell your sister that she's gotta rise up
When are these colonies gonna rise up? When are these colonies gonna rise up? When are these colonies gonna rise up? When are these colonies gonna rise up? When are these colonies gonna rise up? Rise up!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Rise up!
I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory When’s it gonna get me? In my sleep? Seven feet ahead of me? If I see it comin’, do I run or do I let it be? Is it like a beat without a melody? See, I never thought I’d live past twenty Where I come from some get half as many Ask anybody why we livin’ fast and we laugh, reach for a flask We have to make this moment last, that’s plenty Scratch that This is not a moment, it’s the movement Where all the hungriest brothers with Something to prove went? Foes oppose us, we take an honest stand We roll like Moses, claimin’ our promised land And? If we win our independence? Is that a guarantee of freedom for our descendants? Or will the blood we shed begin an endless Cycle of vengeance and death with no defendants? I know the action in the street is excitin’ But Jesus, between all the bleedin’ ‘n fightin’ I’ve been readin’ ‘n writin’ We need to handle our financial situation Are we a nation of states? What’s the state of our nation? I’m past patiently waitin’. I’m passionately Smashin’ every expectation Every action’s an act of creation! I’m laughin’ in the face of casualties and sorrow For the first time, I’m thinkin’ past tomorrow
And I am not throwing away my shot And I am not throwing away my shot I am not throwing away my shot Hey yo, I’m just like my country I’m young, scrappy and hungry And I’m not throwing away my shot
===
We’re gonna rise up! Time to take a shot! We’re gonna rise up! Time to take a shot! We’re gonna rise up! Time to take a shot! We’re gonna
Time to take a shot! Time to take a shot!
Time to take a shot! Time to take a shot! Time to take a shot! Take a shot! Shot! Shot! A-yo it’s Time to take a shot! Time to take a shot! And I am—
Not throwing away my shot Not throwing away my shot Not throwing away my shot We’re gonna Rise up! Rise up! Rise up! Rise up! Rise up! Rise up! Ri— ri— ri— Time to take a shot! Time to take a shot! And I am—
Not throwin’ away my— Not throwin’ away my—
Not throwin’ away my shot! Not throwin’ away my shot!
I may not live to see our glory! I may not live to see our glory!
I may not live to see our glory! I may not live to see our glory!
But I will gladly join the fight! But I will gladly join the fight!
But I will gladly join the fight! But I will gladly join the fight!
And when our children tell our story… And when our children tell our story…
And when our children tell our story… And when our children tell our story…
They’ll tell the story of tonight They’ll tell the story of tonight
Let’s have another round tonight Let’s have another round tonight
Let’s have another round tonight Let’s have another round tonight
Let’s have another round tonight Let’s have another round tonight
Raise a glass to freedom Raise a glass to freedom Something they can never take away No matter what they tell you Raise a glass to the four of us
Tomorrow there’ll be more of us Tomorrow there’ll be more of us
Telling the story of tonight Telling the story of tonight
They’ll tell the story of tonight They’ll tell the story of tonight
Raise a glass to freedom Raise a glass to freedom Something they can never take away
No matter what they tell you No matter what they tell you
Let’s have another round tonight Let’s have another round tonight
Raise a glass to the four of us Raise a glass to the four of us
Tomorrow there’ll be more of us Tomorrow there’ll be more of us
Telling the story of tonight Telling the story of tonight
Let’s have another round tonight Let’s have another round tonight
===
They’ll tell the story of tonight They’ll tell the story of tonight They’ll tell the story of tonight They’ll tell the story of tonight
Raise a glass to freedom Raise a glass to freedom Raise a glass to freedom They’ll tell the story of—
Tonight Tonight
There’s nothing rich folks love more There’s nothing rich folks love more Than going downtown and slummin’ it with the poor They pull up in their carriages and gawk At the students in the common Just to watch them talk Take Philip Schuyler: the man is loaded Uh-oh, but little does he know that His daughters, Peggy, Angelica, Eliza Sneak into the city just to watch all the guys at—
Work, work! Work, work!
Angelica! Angelica!
Work, work! Work, work!
Eliza! Eliza!
And Peggy! And Peggy!
Work, work! Work, work! The Schuyler sisters!
Angelica! Angelica!
Peggy! Peggy!
Eliza! Eliza!
Work! Work!
Daddy said to be home by sundown Daddy said to be home by sundown
Daddy doesn’t need to know Daddy doesn’t need to know
Daddy said not to go downtown Daddy said not to go downtown
Like I said, you’re free to go Like I said, you’re free to go
But—look around, look around, the But—look around, look around, the Revolution’s happening in New York
New York New York
Angelica Angelica
Work! Work!
It’s bad enough daddy wants to go to war It’s bad enough daddy wants to go to war
People shouting in the square People shouting in the square
It’s bad enough there’ll be violence on our shore It’s bad enough there’ll be violence on our shore
New ideas in the air New ideas in the air
Look around, look around— Look around, look around—
Angelica, remind me what we’re looking for… Angelica, remind me what we’re looking for…
She’s lookin’ for me! She’s lookin’ for me!
Eliza, I’m lookin’ for a mind at work Eliza, I’m lookin’ for a mind at work I’m lookin’ for a mind at work! I’m lookin’ for a mind at work! Whooaaaaa!
Whooaaaaa! Whooaaaaa! Work!	COMPANY Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work!
Wooh! There’s nothin’ like summer in the city Wooh! There’s nothin’ like summer in the city Someone in a rush next to someone lookin’ pretty Excuse me, miss, I know it’s not funny But your perfume smells like your daddy’s got money Why you slummin’ in the city in your fancy heels You searchin for an urchin who can give you ideals?
Burr, you disgust me Burr, you disgust me
Ah, so you’ve discussed me Ah, so you’ve discussed me I’m a trust fund, baby, you can trust me!
I’ve been reading Common Sense by Thomas Paine I’ve been reading Common Sense by Thomas Paine So men say that I’m intense or I’m insane You want a revolution? I want a revelation So listen to my declaration:
“We hold these truths to be self-evident “We hold these truths to be self-evident That all men are created equal”
And when I meet Thomas Jefferson And when I meet Thomas Jefferson
Unh! Unh!
I’m ‘a compel him to include women in the sequel! I’m ‘a compel him to include women in the sequel!
Work! Work!
Look around, look around at how Look around, look around at how Lucky we are to be alive right now!
Look around, look around at how Look around, look around at how Lucky we are to be alive right now!
History is happening in Manhattan and we just happen to be History is happening in Manhattan and we just happen to be In the greatest city in the world!
In the greatest city in the world! In the greatest city in the world!
Cuz I’ve been reading Common Sense by Thomas Paine Cuz I’ve been reading Common Sense by Thomas Paine So men say that I’m intense or I’m insane
You want a revolution? You want a revolution? I want a revelation So listen to my declaration:
We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal Whoo!	ELIZA/PEGGY Look around, look around The revolution’s happening in—
New York! New York! In New York!
Look around Look around Look around At how lucky we are to be alive right now	MEN Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
Look around, look around the revolution’s happening Look around, look around the revolution’s happening Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
Look around, look around at how lucky we are to be alive right now! Look around, look around at how lucky we are to be alive right now! History is happening in Manhattan and we just happen to be
In the greatest city in the world In the greatest city in the world
In the greatest city— In the greatest city—
In the greatest city in the world! In the greatest city in the world!
Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work, work!
Work, work! Work, work! Work, work! Work, work!
Angelica! Angelica!
Eliza! Eliza!
And Peggy! And Peggy!
The Schuyler sisters! The Schuyler sisters! We’re looking for a mind at work! Hey! Hey!
Whoa! Whoa! In the greatest City in the world
Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! In the greatest City in the world
In the greatest city in the world! In the greatest city in the world!
Hear ye, hear ye! My name is Samuel Seabury Hear ye, hear ye! My name is Samuel Seabury And I present “Free Thoughts on the Proceedings of the Continental Congress!” Heed not the rabble who scream revolution They have not your interests at heart
Oh my God. Tear this dude apart Oh my God. Tear this dude apart
Chaos and bloodshed are not a solution Chaos and bloodshed are not a solution Don’t let them lead you astray This Congress does not speak for me
Let him be Let him be
They’re playing a dangerous game They’re playing a dangerous game I pray the king shows you his mercy For shame, for shame…
Yo! Yo! He’d have you all unravel at the Sound of screams but the Revolution is comin’ The have-nots are gonna Win this It’s hard to listen to you with a straight face Chaos and bloodshed already haunt us, honestly you shouldn’t even talk. And what about Boston? Look at the cost, n’ all that we’ve lost n’ you talk About Congress?! My dog speaks more eloquently than thee! But strangely, your mange is the same Is he in Jersey? For the revolution!
Heed not the rabble Heed not the rabble Who scream Revolution, they Have not your Interests At heart Chaos and bloodshed are Not a Solution. Don’t Let them lead you Astray This Congress does not Speak for me They’re playing a dangerous game I pray the king shows you his mercy For shame For shame!
For the revolution! For the revolution!
Heed— Heed—
If you repeat yourself again I’m gonna— If you repeat yourself again I’m gonna—
Scream— Scream—
Honestly, look at me, please don’t read! Honestly, look at me, please don’t read!
Not your interests— Not your interests—
Don’t modulate the key then not debate with me! Don’t modulate the key then not debate with me! Why should a tiny island across the sea regulate the price of tea?
Alexander, please! Alexander, please!
Burr, I’d rather be divisive than indecisive, drop the niceties Burr, I’d rather be divisive than indecisive, drop the niceties
Silence! A message from the King! Silence! A message from the King! A message from the King!
A message from the King! A message from the King! Verse1: KING GEORGE You say The price of my love’s not a price that you’re willing to pay You cry In your tea which you hurl in the sea when you see me go by Why so sad? Remember we made an arrangement when you went away Now you’re making me mad Remember, despite our estrangement, I’m your man You’ll be back, soon you’ll see You’ll remember you belong to me You’ll be back, time will tell You’ll remember that I served you well Oceans rise, empires fall We have seen each other through it all And when push comes to shove I will send a fully armed battalion to remind you of my love! Chorus: KING GEORGE Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da Da da dat dat da ya da! Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da Da da dat dat da… Verse2: KING GEORGE You say our love is draining and you can’t go on You’ll be the one complaining when I am gone… And no, don’t change the subject Cuz you’re my favorite subject My sweet, submissive subject My loyal, royal subject Forever and ever and ever and ever and ever… Verse3: KING GEORGE You’ll be back like before I will fight the fight and win the war For your love, for your praise And I’ll love you till my dying days When you’re gone, I’ll go mad So don’t throw away this thing we had Cuz when push comes to shove I will kill your friends and family to remind you of my love Chorus: KING GEORGE Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da Da da dat dat da ya da! Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da Da da dat— Everybody! Chorus: All Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da Da da dat dat da ya da! Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da da da da Dat dat da ya da!
British Admiral Howe’s got troops on the water British Admiral Howe’s got troops on the water Thirty-two thousand troops in New York harbor
Thirty-two thousand troops in New York harbor Thirty-two thousand troops in New York harbor When they surround our troops! They surround our troops! When they surround our troops!
Thirty-two thousand troops in New York harbor Thirty-two thousand troops in New York harbor They surround our troops! They surround our troops!
As a kid in the Caribbean I wished for a war As a kid in the Caribbean I wished for a war I knew that I was poor I knew it was the only way to—
Rise up! Rise up!
If they tell my story If they tell my story I am either gonna die on the battlefield in glory or—
Rise up! Rise up!
I will fight for this land I will fight for this land But there’s only one man Who can give us a command so we can—
Rise up! Rise up!
Understand? It’s the only way to— Understand? It’s the only way to—
Rise up! Rise up! Rise up! Rise up!
Here he comes! Here he comes!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
The moment you’ve been waiting for! The moment you’ve been waiting for!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
The pride of Mount Vernon! The pride of Mount Vernon!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
George Washington! George Washington!
We are outgunned We are outgunned Outmanned Outnumbered Outplanned We gotta make an all out stand Ayo, I’m gonna need a right-hand man.
What? What? What? Buck, buck, buck, buck, buck! Buck, buck, buck, buck, buck!
Check it— Check it— Can I be real a second? For just a millisecond? Let down my guard and tell the people how I feel a second? Now I’m the model of a modern major general The venerated Virginian veteran whose men are all Lining up, to put me up on a pedestal Writin’ letters to relatives Embellishin’ my elegance and eloquence But the elephant is in the room The truth is in ya face when ya hear the British cannons go…
Boom! Boom!
Any hope of success is fleeting Any hope of success is fleeting How can I keep leading when the people I’m Leading keep retreating? We put a stop to the bleeding as the British take Brooklyn Knight takes rook, but look
We are outgunned We are outgunned Outmanned Outnumbered Outplanned We gotta make an all out stand Ayo, I’m gonna need a right-hand man Incoming!
What? What? What? Buck, buck, buck, buck, buck! Buck, buck, buck, buck, buck!
They’re battering down the Battery check the damages They’re battering down the Battery check the damages
Rah! Rah!
We gotta stop ‘em and rob ‘em of their advantages We gotta stop ‘em and rob ‘em of their advantages
Rah! Rah!
Let’s take a stand with the stamina God has granted us Let’s take a stand with the stamina God has granted us Hamilton won’t abandon ship Yo, let’s steal their cannons—
Shh-boom!	COMPANY Shh-boom!	COMPANY Boom!
Goes the cannon, watch the blood and the shit spray and… Goes the cannon, watch the blood and the shit spray and…
Boom! Boom!
Goes the cannon, we’re abandonin’ Kips Bay and… Goes the cannon, we’re abandonin’ Kips Bay and…
Boom! Boom!
There’s another ship and… There’s another ship and…
Boom! Boom!
We just lost the southern tip and… We just lost the southern tip and…
Boom! Boom!
We gotta run to Harlem quick, we can’t afford another slip We gotta run to Harlem quick, we can’t afford another slip Guns and horses giddyup I decide to divvy up My forces, they’re skittish as the British cut the city up This close to giving up, facing mad scrutiny I scream in the face of this mass mutiny: Are these the men with which I am to defend America? We ride at midnight, Manhattan in the distance I cannot be everywhere at once, people I’m in dire need of assistance…
Your excellency, sir! Your excellency, sir!
Who are you? Who are you?
Aaron Burr, Sir? Aaron Burr, Sir? Permission to state my case?
As you were As you were
Sir Sir I was a captain under General Montgomery Until he caught a bullet in the neck in Quebec And well, in summary I think that I could be of some assistance I admire how you keep firing on the British From a distance
Huh Huh
I have some questions, a couple of suggestions on how to fight instead of fleeing west I have some questions, a couple of suggestions on how to fight instead of fleeing west
Yes? Yes?
Well— Well—
Your excellency, you wanted to see me? Your excellency, you wanted to see me?
Hamilton, come in, have you met Burr? Hamilton, come in, have you met Burr?
Yes, sir Yes, sir
We keep meeting We keep meeting
As I was saying, sir, I look forward to seeing your strategy play out As I was saying, sir, I look forward to seeing your strategy play out
Burr? Burr?
Sir? Sir?
Close the door on your way out Close the door on your way out
Have I done something wrong, sir? Have I done something wrong, sir?
On the contrary On the contrary I called you here because our odds are beyond scary Your reputation precedes you, but I have to laugh
Sir? Sir?
Hamilton, how come no one can get you on their staff? Hamilton, how come no one can get you on their staff?
Sir! Sir!
Don’t get me wrong, you’re a young man of great renown Don’t get me wrong, you’re a young man of great renown I know you stole British cannons when we were still downtown Nathaniel Green and Henry Knox wanted to hire you…
To be their Secretary? I don’t think so To be their Secretary? I don’t think so
Why’re you upset? Why’re you upset?
I’m not— I’m not—
It’s alright, you want to fight, you’ve got a hunger It’s alright, you want to fight, you’ve got a hunger I was just like you when I was younger Head full of fantasies of dyin’ like a martyr?
Yes Yes
Dying is easy, young man. Living is harder Dying is easy, young man. Living is harder
Why are you telling me this? Why are you telling me this?
I’m being honest I’m being honest I’m working with a third of what our Congress has promised We are a powder keg about to explode I need someone like you to lighten the load. So?
I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot! Ayo, I’m just like my country, I’m young Scrappy and hungry!
I am not throwing away my shot! I am not throwing away my shot!
Son Son
We are outgunned, outmanned! We are outgunned, outmanned!
You need all the help you can get You need all the help you can get I have some friends. Laurens, Mulligan Marquis de Lafayette, okay, what else?
Outnumbered, outplanned! Outnumbered, outplanned!
We’ll need some spies on the inside We’ll need some spies on the inside Some King’s men who might let some things slide
I’ll write to Congress and tell ‘em we need supplies, you rally the guys, master the element of surprise I’ll write to Congress and tell ‘em we need supplies, you rally the guys, master the element of surprise I’ll rise above my station, organize your information, ‘til we rise to the occasion of our new nation. Sir!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
Rise up! Rise up!
Rise up! Rise up!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
Rise up!	COMPANY Rise up!	COMPANY Boom! Chicka-boom!
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
Rise up! Rise up!
Rise up!	ELIZA/ANGELICA/PEGGY Rise up!	ELIZA/ANGELICA/PEGGY Whoa, whoa, whoa… Whoa, whoa, whoa…
Whoa, whoa, whoa… Whoa, whoa, whoa…
===
What? What?
What? What?
What? What?
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
What? What?
And his right hand man! And his right hand man!
Boom! Boom! Burr How does the bastard, orphan, son of a whore Go on and on Grow into more of a phenomenon? Watch this obnoxious, arrogant, loudmouth bother Be seated at the right hand of the father Washington hires Hamilton right on sight But Hamilton still wants to fight, not write Now Hamilton’s skill with a quill is undeniable But what do we have in common? We’re Reliable with the All Men Ladies! Burr There are so many to deflower! All Men Ladies! Burr Looks! Proximity to power All Men Ladies! Burr They delighted and distracted him Martha Washington named her feral tomcat after him! Hamilton That’s true! Full Company 1780 Burr A winter’s ball And the Schuyler sisters are the envy of all Yo, if you can marry a sister, you’re rich, son Hamilton Is it a question of if, Burr, or which one? Hamilton/Burr/Laurens Hey Hey Hey hey
Hey hey hey hey Hey hey hey hey
Ohh, I do I do I do I Ohh, I do I do I do I Dooo! Hey! Ohh, I do I do I do I Dooo! Boy you got me	ALL WOMEN Hey hey hey hey Hey hey hey hey Hey hey hey hey Hey hey hey
Helpless! Helpless! Look into your eyes, and the sky’s the limit I’m helpless! Down for the count, and I’m drownin’ in ‘em
I have never been the type to try and grab the spotlight I have never been the type to try and grab the spotlight We were at a revel with some rebels on a hot night Laughin’ at my sister as she’s dazzling the room Then you walked in and my heart went “Boom!” Tryin’ to catch your eye from the side of the ballroom Everybody’s dancin’ and the band’s top volume
Grind to the rhythm as we wine and dine Grind to the rhythm as we wine and dine
Grab my sister, and Grab my sister, and Whisper, “Yo, this One’s mine.” My sister made her way across the room to you And I got nervous, thinking “What’s she gonna do?” She grabbed you by the arm, I’m thinkin’ “I’m through” Then you look back at me and suddenly I’m Helpless! Oh, look at those eyes Oh! Yeah, I’m Helpless, I know I’m so into you I am so into you I know I’m down for the count And I’m drownin’ in ‘em.
Oooh Oooh Oooh Oooh Oooh Helpless! Look into your eyes And the sky’s the limit I’m Helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in ‘em I’m helpless! Look into your eyes And the sky’s the limit I’m helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in ‘em.
Where are you taking me? Where are you taking me?
I’m about to change your life I’m about to change your life
Then by all means, lead the way Then by all means, lead the way
Elizabeth Schuyler. It’s a pleasure to meet you Elizabeth Schuyler. It’s a pleasure to meet you
Schuyler? Schuyler?
My sister My sister
Thank you for all your service Thank you for all your service
If it takes fighting a war for us to meet, it will have been worth it If it takes fighting a war for us to meet, it will have been worth it
I’ll leave you to it I’ll leave you to it
One week later One week later
I’m writin’ a letter nightly I’m writin’ a letter nightly Now my life gets better, every letter that you write me Laughin’ at my sister, cuz she wants to form a harem
I’m just sayin’, if you really loved me, you would share him I’m just sayin’, if you really loved me, you would share him
Ha! Ha! Two weeks later In the living room stressin’ My father’s stone-faced While you’re asking for his blessin’ I’m dying inside, as You wine And dine And I’m tryin’ not to cry ‘cause there’s nothing that your mind can’t do My father makes his way across the room To you I panic for a second, thinking “we’re through” But then he shakes your hand and says “Be true” And you turn back to me, smiling, and I’m Helpless! Helpless! Hoo! That boy is mine That boy is mine! Helpless! Helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in em
Stressin’ Stressin’ Blessin’ Oooh Oooh Oooh Oooh Helpless! Look into your eyes And the sky’s the Limit I’m Helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in ‘em I’m Helpless! Look into your eyes And the sky’s the Limit I’m Helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in em
Eliza, I don’t have a dollar to my name Eliza, I don’t have a dollar to my name An acre of land, a troop to command, a dollop of fame All I have’s my honor, a tolerance for pain A couple of college credits and my top-notch brain Insane, your family brings out a different side of me Peggy confides in me, Angelica tried to take a bite of me No stress, my love for you is never in doubt We’ll get a little place in Harlem and we’ll figure it out I’ve been livin’ without a family since I was a child My father left, my mother died, I grew up buckwild But I’ll never forget my mother’s face, that was real And long as I’m alive, Eliza, swear to God You’ll never feel so…
Eliza… Eliza… I’ve never felt so— My life is gon’ be fine cuz Eliza’s in it.
I do I do I do I do! I do I do I do I do! I do I do I do I do! Hey, yeah, yeah! I’m down for the count I’m— I look into your eyes, and the sky’s the limit I’m …drownin’ in ‘em.	ALL WOMEN Helpless! Helpless! Helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in ‘em Helpless! Helpless! Helpless! Down for the count And I’m drownin’ in ‘em. Wedding march plays
In New York, you can be a new man… In New York, you can be a new man… In New York, you can be a new man… In New York, you can be a new man…
Helpless Helpless
Alright, alright. That’s what I’m talkin’ about! Alright, alright. That’s what I’m talkin’ about! Now everyone give it up for the maid of honor Angelica Schuyler!
A toast to the groom! A toast to the groom! To the bride! From your sister Who is always by your side To your union And the hope that you provide May you always… Be satisfied
To the groom! To the groom! To the groom! To the groom! To the bride! To the bride! Angelica! Angelica! Angelica! By your side! To the union! To the revolution! You provide! You provide!
Always— Always— Rewind—
To the groom! To the groom! To the bride! To the bride!
Angelica! Angelica! By your side! To the union! To the revolution! You provide! Always— Rewind—
I remember that night, I just might I remember that night, I just might Regret that night for the rest of my days I remember those soldier boys Tripping over themselves to win our praise I remember that dreamlike candlelight Like a dream that you can’t quite place But Alexander, I’ll never forget the first Time I saw your face I have never been the same Intelligent eyes in a hunger-pang frame And when you said “Hi,” I forgot my dang name Set my heart aflame, ev’ry part aflame
This is not a game… This is not a game…
You strike me as a woman who has never been satisfied You strike me as a woman who has never been satisfied
I’m sure I don’t know what you mean. You forget yourself I’m sure I don’t know what you mean. You forget yourself
You’re like me. I’m never satisfied You’re like me. I’m never satisfied
Is that right? Is that right?
I have never been satisfied I have never been satisfied
My name is Angelica Schuyler My name is Angelica Schuyler
Alexander Hamilton Alexander Hamilton
Where’s your fam’ly from? Where’s your fam’ly from?
Unimportant. There’s a million things I haven’t done but Unimportant. There’s a million things I haven’t done but Just you wait, just you wait…
So so so— So so so— So this is what it feels like to match wits With someone at your level! What the hell is the catch? It’s The feeling of freedom, of seein’ the light It’s Ben Franklin with a key and a kite! You see it, right? The conversation lasted two minutes, maybe three minutes Ev’rything we said in total agreement, it’s A dream and it’s a bit of a dance A bit of a posture, it’s a bit of a stance. He’s a Bit of a flirt, but I’m ‘a give it a chance I asked about his fam’ly, did you see his answer? His hands started fidgeting, he looked askance? He’s penniless, he’s flying by the seat of his pants Handsome, boy, does he know it! Peach fuzz, and he can’t even grow it! I wanna take him far away from this place Then I turn and see my sister’s face and she is…
Helpless… Helpless…
And I know she is… And I know she is…
Helpless… Helpless…
And her eyes are just… And her eyes are just…
Helpless… Helpless…
And I realize And I realize
Three fundamental truths at the exact same time… Three fundamental truths at the exact same time…
Where are you taking me? Where are you taking me?
I’m about to change your life I’m about to change your life
Then by all means, lead the way Then by all means, lead the way
Number one! Number one!
I’m a girl in a world in which I’m a girl in a world in which My only job is to marry rich My father has no sons so I’m the one Who has to social climb for one So I’m the oldest and the wittiest and the gossip in New York City is insidious And Alexander is penniless Ha! That doesn’t mean I want him any less
Elizabeth Schuyler. It’s a pleasure to meet you Elizabeth Schuyler. It’s a pleasure to meet you
Schuyler? Schuyler?
My sister My sister
Number two! Number two!
He’s after me cuz I’m a Schuyler sister He’s after me cuz I’m a Schuyler sister That elevates his status, I’d Have to be naïve to set that aside Maybe that is why I introduce him to Eliza Now that’s his bride Nice going, Angelica, he was right You will never be satisfied
Thank you for all your service Thank you for all your service
If it takes fighting a war for us to meet, it will have been worth it If it takes fighting a war for us to meet, it will have been worth it
I’ll leave you to it I’ll leave you to it
Number three! Number three!
I know my sister like I know my own mind I know my sister like I know my own mind You will never find anyone as trusting or as kind If I tell her that I love him she’d be silently resigned He’d be mine She would say, “I’m fine”
She’d be lying She’d be lying
But when I fantasize at night But when I fantasize at night It’s Alexander’s eyes As I romanticize what might Have been if I hadn’t sized him Up so quickly At least my dear Eliza’s his wife; At least I keep his eyes in my life…
To the groom! To the groom! To the bride! From your sister Who is always by your side To your union And the hope that you provide May you always Be satisfied And I know She’ll be happy as His bride And I know	ALL MEN (EXCEPT HAMILTON) To the groom! To the groom! To the groom! To the bride! To the bride! Angelica! Angelica! By your side To the union! To the revolution! You provide! You provide!
Always— Always— Be satisfied Be satisfied
Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied.
To the groom! To the groom! To the bride! To the bride!
Angelica! Angelica! By your side To the union! To the revolution! You provide! Always— Be satisfied
Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied Be satisfied.
He will never be satisfied He will never be satisfied I will never be satisfied
I may not live to see our glory! I may not live to see our glory!
I may not live to see our glory! I may not live to see our glory!
But I’ve seen wonders great and small But I’ve seen wonders great and small
I’ve seen wonders great and small I’ve seen wonders great and small
‘Cause if the tomcat can get married ‘Cause if the tomcat can get married
If Alexander can get married— If Alexander can get married—
There’s hope for our ass, after all! There’s hope for our ass, after all!
Raise a glass to freedom Raise a glass to freedom
Hey! Hey! Something you will never see again!
No matter what she tells you No matter what she tells you
Let’s have another round tonight! Let’s have another round tonight!
Raise a glass to the four of us! Raise a glass to the four of us!
Ho! Ho!
To the newly not poor of us! To the newly not poor of us!
Woo! Woo!
We’ll tell the story of tonight We’ll tell the story of tonight
Let’s have another round— Let’s have another round—
Well, if it isn’t Aaron Burr Well, if it isn’t Aaron Burr
Sir! Sir!
I didn’t think that you would make it I didn’t think that you would make it
To be sure To be sure
Burr! Burr!
I came to say congratulations I came to say congratulations
Spit a verse, Burr! Spit a verse, Burr!
I see the whole gang is here I see the whole gang is here
You are the worst, Burr! You are the worst, Burr!
Ignore them. Congrats to you, Lieutenant Colonel Ignore them. Congrats to you, Lieutenant Colonel I wish I had your command instead of manning George’s journal
No, you don’t No, you don’t
Yes, I do Yes, I do
Now, be sensible Now, be sensible From what I hear, you’ve made yourself indispensable
Well, well, I heard Well, well, I heard You’ve got a special someone on the side, Burr
Is that so? Is that so?
What are you tryin’ to hide, Burr? What are you tryin’ to hide, Burr?
I should go I should go
No, these guys should go No, these guys should go
What? What?
No! No!
Leave us alone Leave us alone
Man… Man…
It’s alright, Burr. I wish you’d brought this girl with you tonight, Burr It’s alright, Burr. I wish you’d brought this girl with you tonight, Burr
You’re very kind, but I’m afraid it’s unlawful, sir You’re very kind, but I’m afraid it’s unlawful, sir
What do you mean? What do you mean?
She’s married She’s married
I see I see
She’s married to a British officer She’s married to a British officer
Oh shit… Oh shit…
Congrats again, Alexander. Smile more Congrats again, Alexander. Smile more I’ll see you on the other side of the war
I will never understand you I will never understand you If you love this woman, go get her! What are you waiting for?
I’ll see you on the other side of the war I’ll see you on the other side of the war
I’ll see you on the other side of the war I’ll see you on the other side of the war
Theodosia writes me a letter every day Theodosia writes me a letter every day I'm keeping the bed warm while her husband is away He's on the British side in Georgia He's trying to keep the colonies in line But he can keep all of Georgia Theodosia, she's mine Love doesn't discriminate Between the sinners And the saints It takes and it takes and it takes And we keep loving anyway We laugh and we cry And we break And we make our mistakes And if there's a reason I'm by her side When so many have tried Then I'm willing to wait for it I'm willing to wait for it
My grandfather was a fire and brimstone preacher My grandfather was a fire and brimstone preacher But there are things that the Homilies and hymns won't teach ya My mother was a genius My father commanded respect When they died they left no instructions Just a legacy to protect
Preacher, preacher Preacher, preacher Preacher Teach ya, teach ya, teach ya Respect, respect
Genius Genius
Death doesn’t discriminate Death doesn’t discriminate Between the sinners And the saints It takes and it takes and it takes And we keep living anyway We rise and we fall And we break And we make our mistakes And if there’s a reason I’m still alive When everyone who loves me has died I’m willing to wait for it I’m willing to wait for it Wait for it
Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it
I am the one thing in life I can control I am the one thing in life I can control
Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it
I am inimitable I am inimitable I am an original
Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it
I’m not falling behind or running late I’m not falling behind or running late
Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it Wait for it
I’m not standing still I’m not standing still I am lying in wait
Wait Wait Wait Wait
Hamilton faces an endless uphill climb Hamilton faces an endless uphill climb
Climb Climb Climb Climb
He has something to prove He has something to prove He has nothing to lose
Lose Lose Lose Lose Lose
Hamilton’s pace is relentless Hamilton’s pace is relentless He wastes no time
Time Time Time Time
What is it like in his shoes? What is it like in his shoes? Hamilton doesn’t hesitate He exhibits no restraint He takes and he takes and he takes And he keeps winning anyway He changes the game He plays and he raises the stakes And if there’s a reason He seems to thrive when so few survive, then Goddamnit—
I'm willing to wait for it I'm willing to wait for it I'm willing to wait for it… Life doesn't discriminate Between the sinners and the saints It takes and it takes and it takes We rise We fall And if there's a reason I'm still alive When so many have died Then I'm willin' to—
I'm willing to wait for it I'm willing to wait for it Wait for it Wait for… I'm willing to— Life doesn't discriminate Between the sinners and the saints It takes and it takes and it takes And we keep living anyway We rise and we fall and we break And we make our mistakes And if there's a reason I'm still alive When so many have died Then I'm willin' to—
Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it…
Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it…
Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait for it… Wait…
Stay alive… Stay alive…
Stay alive… Stay alive…
I have never seen the General so despondent I have never seen the General so despondent I have taken over writing all his correspondence Congress writes, “George, attack the British forces.” I shoot back, we have resorted to eating our horses Local merchants deny us equipment, assistance They only take British money, so sing a song of sixpence
The cavalry’s not coming The cavalry’s not coming
But, sir! But, sir!
Alex, listen. There’s only one way for us to win this Alex, listen. There’s only one way for us to win this Provoke outrage, outright
That’s right That’s right
Don’t engage, strike by night Don’t engage, strike by night Remain relentless ‘til their troops take flight
Make it impossible to justify the cost of the fight Make it impossible to justify the cost of the fight
Outrun Outrun
Outrun Outrun
Outlast Outlast
Outlast Outlast
Hit ‘em quick, get out fast Hit ‘em quick, get out fast
Chick-a-plao! Chick-a-plao!
Stay alive ‘til this horror show is past Stay alive ‘til this horror show is past We’re gonna fly a lot of flags half-mast
Raise a glass! Raise a glass!
I go back to New York and my apprenticeship I go back to New York and my apprenticeship
I ask for French aid, I pray that France has sent a ship I ask for French aid, I pray that France has sent a ship
I stay at work with Hamilton I stay at work with Hamilton We write essays against slavery And every day’s a test of our camaraderie And bravery
We cut supply lines, we steal contraband We cut supply lines, we steal contraband We pick and choose our battles and places to take a stand And ev’ry day “Sir, entrust me with a command,” And ev’ry day
No No
He dismisses me out of hand He dismisses me out of hand
Instead of me Instead of me He promotes Charles Lee Makes him second-in-command:
Charles Lee.	ELIZA/ANGELICA Charles Lee.	ELIZA/ANGELICA Stay alive…
I’m a General. Whee!!!! I’m a General. Whee!!!!
Yeah. He’s not the choice I would have gone with Yeah. He’s not the choice I would have gone with
He shits the bed at the Battle of Monmouth He shits the bed at the Battle of Monmouth
Ev’ryone attack! Ev’ryone attack!
Retreat! Retreat!
Attack! Attack!
Retreat! Retreat!
What are you doing, Lee? Get back on your feet! What are you doing, Lee? Get back on your feet!
But there’s so many of them! But there’s so many of them!
I’m sorry, is this not your speed?! I’m sorry, is this not your speed?! Hamilton!
Ready, sir! Ready, sir!
Have Lafayette take the lead! Have Lafayette take the lead!
Yes, sir! Yes, sir!
A thousand soldiers die in a hundred degree heat A thousand soldiers die in a hundred degree heat
As we snatch a stalemate from the jaws of defeat As we snatch a stalemate from the jaws of defeat
Charles Lee was left behind Charles Lee was left behind Without a pot to piss in He started sayin’ this to anybody who would listen:
Washington cannot be left alone to his devices Washington cannot be left alone to his devices Indecisive, from crisis to crisis The best thing he can do for the revolution Is turn n’ go back to plantin’ tobacco in Mount Vernon
Oo!! Oo!!
Don’t do a thing. History will prove him wrong Don’t do a thing. History will prove him wrong
But, sir! But, sir!
We have a war to fight, let’s move along We have a war to fight, let’s move along
Strong words from Lee, someone oughta hold him to it Strong words from Lee, someone oughta hold him to it
I can’t disobey direct orders I can’t disobey direct orders
Then I’ll do it Then I’ll do it Alexander, you’re the closest friend I’ve got
Laurens, do not throw away your shot Laurens, do not throw away your shot
One, two, three, four One, two, three, four
Five, six, seven, eight, nine… Five, six, seven, eight, nine…
It’s the Ten Duel Commandments It’s the Ten Duel Commandments
It’s the Ten Duel Commandments It’s the Ten Duel Commandments Number one!
The challenge: demand satisfaction The challenge: demand satisfaction If they apologize, no need for further action
Number two! Number two!
If they don’t, grab a friend, that’s your second If they don’t, grab a friend, that’s your second
Your lieutenant when there’s reckoning to be reckoned Your lieutenant when there’s reckoning to be reckoned
Number three! Number three!
Have your seconds meet face to face Have your seconds meet face to face
Negotiate a peace… Negotiate a peace…
Or negotiate a time and place Or negotiate a time and place
This is commonplace, ‘specially ‘tween recruits This is commonplace, ‘specially ‘tween recruits
Most disputes die, and no one shoots Most disputes die, and no one shoots Number four!
If they don’t reach a peace, that’s alright If they don’t reach a peace, that’s alright Time to get some pistols and a doctor on site
You pay him in advance, you treat him with civility You pay him in advance, you treat him with civility
You have him turn around so he can have deniability You have him turn around so he can have deniability
Five! Five!
Duel before the sun is in the sky Duel before the sun is in the sky
Pick a place to die where it’s high and dry Pick a place to die where it’s high and dry Number six!
Leave a note for your next of kin Leave a note for your next of kin Tell ‘em where you been. Pray that hell or heaven lets you in
Seven! Seven!
Confess your sins. Ready for the moment Confess your sins. Ready for the moment Of adrenaline when you finally face your opponent
Number eight! Number eight!
Your last chance to negotiate Your last chance to negotiate Send in your seconds, see if they can set the record straight…
Alexander Alexander
Aaron Burr, sir Aaron Burr, sir
Can we agree that duels are dumb and immature? Can we agree that duels are dumb and immature?
Sure Sure But your man has to answer for his words, Burr
With his life? We both know that’s absurd, sir With his life? We both know that’s absurd, sir
Hang on, how many men died because Lee was inexperienced and ruinous? Hang on, how many men died because Lee was inexperienced and ruinous?
Okay, so we’re doin’ this Okay, so we’re doin’ this
Number nine! Number nine!
Look ‘em in the eye, aim no higher Look ‘em in the eye, aim no higher Summon all the courage you require Then count
One two three four One two three four
Five six seven eight nine Five six seven eight nine
Number Number
Ten paces! Ten paces!
Fire! Fire!
Lee, do you yield? Lee, do you yield?
You shot him in the side! You shot him in the side! Yes, he yields!
I’m satisfied I’m satisfied
Yo, we gotta clear the field! Yo, we gotta clear the field!
Go! We won Go! We won
Here comes the General! Here comes the General!
This should be fun This should be fun
What is the meaning of this? Mr. Burr, get a medic for the General What is the meaning of this? Mr. Burr, get a medic for the General
Yes, sir Yes, sir
Lee, you will never agree with me Lee, you will never agree with me But believe me, these young men don’t speak for me Thank you for your service
Let’s ride! Let’s ride!
Hamilton! Hamilton!
Sir! Sir!
Meet me inside Meet me inside
Meet him inside! Meet him inside! Meet him inside! Meet him inside! Meet him inside, meet him, meet him inside!
Son— Son—
Don’t call me son Don’t call me son
This war is hard enough This war is hard enough Without infighting—
Lee called you out. We called his bluff Lee called you out. We called his bluff
You solve nothing, you aggravate our allies to the south You solve nothing, you aggravate our allies to the south
You're absolutely right, John should have shot him in the mouth You're absolutely right, John should have shot him in the mouth That would’ve shut him up
Son— Son—
I’m notcha son— I’m notcha son—
Watch your tone Watch your tone I am not a maiden in need of defending, I am grown
Charles Lee, Thomas Conway Charles Lee, Thomas Conway These men take your name and they rake it Through the mud
My name’s been through a lot, I can take it My name’s been through a lot, I can take it
Well, I don’t have your name. I don’t have your titles Well, I don’t have your name. I don’t have your titles I don’t have your land But, if you—
No— No—
If you gave me command of a battalion, a group of men to lead, I could fly above my station after the war If you gave me command of a battalion, a group of men to lead, I could fly above my station after the war
Or you could die and we need you alive Or you could die and we need you alive
I’m more than willing to die— I’m more than willing to die—
Your wife needs you alive, son, I need you alive— Your wife needs you alive, son, I need you alive—
Call me son one more time— Call me son one more time—
Go home, Alexander Go home, Alexander That’s an order from your commander
Sir— Sir—
Go home Go home
Look around, look around at how lucky we are Look around, look around at how lucky we are To be alive right now Look around, look around…
How long have you known? How long have you known?
A month or so A month or so
Eliza, you should have told me Eliza, you should have told me
I wrote to the General a month ago I wrote to the General a month ago
No No
I begged him to send you home I begged him to send you home
You should have told me You should have told me
I’m not sorry I’m not sorry
I knew you’d fight I knew you’d fight Until the war was won But you deserve a chance to meet your son Look around, look around at how lucky we are To be alive right now.
The war’s not The war’s not Done.
Will you relish being a poor man’s wife Will you relish being a poor man’s wife Unable to provide for your life?
I relish being your wife I relish being your wife Look around, look around… Look at where you are Look at where you started The fact that you’re alive is a miracle Just stay alive, that would be enough And if this child Shares a fraction of your smile Or a fragment of your mind, look out world! That would be enough I don’t pretend to know The challenges you’re facing The worlds you keep erasing and creating in your mind But I’m not afraid I know who I married So long as you come home at the end of the day That would be enough We don’t need a legacy We don’t need money If I could grant you peace of mind If you could let me inside your heart… Oh, let me be a part of the narrative In the story they will write someday Let this moment be the first chapter: Where you decide to stay And I could be enough And we could be enough That would be enough
How does a ragtag volunteer army in need of a shower How does a ragtag volunteer army in need of a shower Somehow defeat a global superpower? How do we emerge victorious from the quagmire? Leave the battlefield waving Betsy Ross’ flag higher? Yo. Turns out we have a secret weapon! An immigrant you know and love who’s unafraid to step in! He’s constantly confusin’, confoundin’ the British henchmen Ev’ryone give it up for America’s favorite fighting Frenchman!
Lafayette! Lafayette!
I’m takin this horse by the reins makin’ I’m takin this horse by the reins makin’ Redcoats redder with bloodstains
Lafayette! Lafayette!
And I’m never gonna stop until I make ‘em And I’m never gonna stop until I make ‘em Drop and burn ‘em up and scatter their remains, I’m
Lafayette! Lafayette!
Watch me engagin’ em! Escapin’ em! Watch me engagin’ em! Escapin’ em! Enragin’ em! I’m—
Lafayette! Lafayette!
I go to France for more funds I go to France for more funds
Lafayette! Lafayette!
I come back with more I come back with more
Guns Guns And ships And so the balance shifts
We rendezvous with Rochambeau, consolidate their gifts We rendezvous with Rochambeau, consolidate their gifts
We can end this war at Yorktown, cut them off at sea, but We can end this war at Yorktown, cut them off at sea, but For this to succeed, there is someone else we need:
I know I know
Hamilton! Hamilton!
Sir, he knows what to do in a trench Sir, he knows what to do in a trench Ingenuitive and fluent in French, I mean—
Hamilton! Hamilton!
Sir, you’re gonna have to use him eventually Sir, you’re gonna have to use him eventually What’s he gonna do on the bench? I mean—
Hamilton! Hamilton!
No one has more resilience No one has more resilience Or matches my practical tactical brilliance—
Hamilton! Hamilton!
You wanna fight for your land back? You wanna fight for your land back?
I need my right hand man back! I need my right hand man back!
Ah! Uh, get ya right hand man back Ah! Uh, get ya right hand man back You know you gotta get ya right hand man back I mean you gotta put some thought into the letter but the sooner the better To get your right hand man back!
Hamilton! Hamilton!
Hamilton! Hamilton! Hamilton! Hamilton, Hamilton! Ha— ha—!
Get your right hand man back! Get your right hand man back! Your right hand man back! Hamilton! Ha— Ha— Hamilton, Hamilton! Ha— ha—!
Alexander Hamilton Alexander Hamilton Troops are waiting in the field for you If you join us right now, together we can turn the tide Oh, Alexander Hamilton I have soldiers that will yield for you If we manage to get this right They’ll surrender by early light The world will never be the same, Alexander…
I was younger than you are now I was younger than you are now When I was given my first command I led my men straight into a massacre I witnessed their deaths firsthand I made every mistake And felt the shame rise in me And even now I lie awake
Knowing history has its eyes on me Knowing history has its eyes on me
History has its eyes on me.	LAURENS/MULLIGAN History has its eyes on me.	LAURENS/MULLIGAN Whoa… Whoa… Whoa… Yeah
Whoa… Whoa… Whoa… Whoa… Yeah
Let me tell you what I wish I’d known Let me tell you what I wish I’d known When I was young and dreamed of glory: You have no control:
Who lives, who dies, who tells your story Who lives, who dies, who tells your story
I know that we can win I know that we can win I know that greatness lies in you But remember from here on in
History has its History has its Eyes on you.
Whoa… Whoa… Whoa… Whoa…
History has its eyes on you History has its eyes on you
The battle of Yorktown. 1781 The battle of Yorktown. 1781
Monsieur Hamilton Monsieur Hamilton
Monsieur Lafayette Monsieur Lafayette
In command where you belong In command where you belong
How you say, no sweat How you say, no sweat We're finally on the field. We’ve had quite a run
Immigrants: Immigrants:
We get the job done We get the job done
So what happens if we win? So what happens if we win?
I go back to France I go back to France I bring freedom to my people if I’m given the chance
We’ll be with you when you do We’ll be with you when you do
Go lead your men Go lead your men
See you on the other side See you on the other side
‘Til we meet again, let’s go! ‘Til we meet again, let’s go!
I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot! Hey yo, I’m just like my country, I’m young Scrappy and hungry And I’m not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot!
‘Til the world turns upside down… ‘Til the world turns upside down…
‘Til the world turns upside down! ‘Til the world turns upside down!
I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory This is where it gets me: on my feet The enemy ahead of me If this is the end of me, at least I have a friend with me Weapon in my hand, a command, and my men with me Then I remember my Eliza’s expecting me… Not only that, my Eliza’s expecting We gotta go, gotta get the job done Gotta start a new nation, gotta meet my son! Take the bullets out your gun!
What? What?
The bullets out your gun! The bullets out your gun!
What? What?
We move under cover and we move as one We move under cover and we move as one Through the night, we have one shot to live another day We cannot let a stray gunshot give us away We will fight up close, seize the moment and stay in it It’s either that or meet the business end of a bayonet The code word is ‘Rochambeau,’ dig me?
Rochambeau! Rochambeau!
You have your orders now, go, man, go! You have your orders now, go, man, go! And so the American experiment begins With my friends all scattered to the winds Laurens is in South Carolina, redefining brav’ry
We’ll never be free until we end slavery! We’ll never be free until we end slavery!
When we finally drive the British away When we finally drive the British away Lafayette is there waiting—
In Chesapeake Bay! In Chesapeake Bay!
How did we know that this plan would work? How did we know that this plan would work? We had a spy on the inside. That’s right
Hercules Mulligan! Hercules Mulligan!
A tailor spyin’ on the British government! A tailor spyin’ on the British government! I take their measurements, information and then I smuggle it
Up Up
To my brother's revolutionary covenant To my brother's revolutionary covenant I’m runnin’ with the Sons of Liberty and I am lovin’ it! See, that’s what happens when you up against the ruffians We in the shit now, somebody gotta shovel it! Hercules Mulligan, I need no introduction When you knock me down I get the fuck back up again!
Left! Right! Hold! Left! Right! Hold! Go! What! What! What!
After a week of fighting, a young man in a red coat stands on a parapet After a week of fighting, a young man in a red coat stands on a parapet
We lower our guns as he frantically waves a white handkerchief We lower our guns as he frantically waves a white handkerchief
And just like that, it’s over. We tend to our wounded, we count our dead And just like that, it’s over. We tend to our wounded, we count our dead
Black and white soldiers wonder alike if this really means freedom Black and white soldiers wonder alike if this really means freedom
Not. Yet Not. Yet
We negotiate the terms of surrender We negotiate the terms of surrender I see George Washington smile We escort their men out of Yorktown They stagger home single file Tens of thousands of people flood the streets There are screams and church bells ringing And as our fallen foes retreat I hear the drinking song they’re singing…
The world turned upside down The world turned upside down
The world turned upside down The world turned upside down The world turned upside down The world turned upside down Down Down, down, down
Freedom for America, freedom for France! Freedom for America, freedom for France!
Down, down, down Down, down, down
Gotta start a new nation Gotta start a new nation Gotta meet my son
Down, down, down Down, down, down
We won! We won!
We won! We won!
We won! We won!
We won! We won!
The world turned upside down! The world turned upside down!
They say They say The price of my war’s not a price that they’re willing to pay Insane You cheat with the French, now I’m fighting with France and with Spain I’m so blue I thought that we’d made an arrangement When you went away You were mine to subdue Well, even despite our estrangement, I’ve got A small query for you: What comes next? You’ve been freed Do you know how hard it is to lead? You’re on your own Awesome. Wow Do you have a clue what happens now? Oceans rise Empires fall It’s much harder when it’s all your call All alone, across the sea When your people say they hate you, don’t Come crawling back to me Da da da dat da dat da da da Da ya da Da da dat Da da ya da… You’re on your own…
Dear Theodosia, what to say to you? Dear Theodosia, what to say to you? You have my eyes. You have your mother’s name When you came into the world, you cried and it broke my heart I’m dedicating every day to you Domestic life was never quite my style When you smile, you knock me out, I fall apart And I thought I was so smart You will come of age with our young nation We’ll bleed and fight for you, we’ll make it right for you If we lay a strong enough foundation We’ll pass it on to you, we’ll give the world to you And you’ll blow us all away… Someday, someday Yeah, you’ll blow us all away Someday, someday
Oh Philip, when you smile I am undone Oh Philip, when you smile I am undone My son Look at my son. Pride is not the word I’m looking for There is so much more inside me now Oh Philip, you outshine the morning sun My son When you smile, I fall apart And I thought I was so smart My father wasn’t around
My father wasn’t around My father wasn’t around
I swear that I swear that I’ll be around for you.
I’ll be around for you. I’ll be around for you.
I’ll do whatever it takes I’ll do whatever it takes
I’ll make a million mistakes I’ll make a million mistakes
I’ll make the world safe and sound for you… I’ll make the world safe and sound for you… …will come of age with our young nation We’ll bleed and fight for you, we’ll make it right for you If we lay a strong enough foundation We’ll pass it on to you, we’ll give the world to you And you’ll blow us all away… Someday, someday Yeah, you’ll blow us all away Someday, someday
After the war I went back to New York After the war I went back to New York
A-After the war I went back to New York A-After the war I went back to New York
I finished up my studies and I practiced law I finished up my studies and I practiced law
I practiced law, Burr worked next door I practiced law, Burr worked next door
Even though we started at the very same time Even though we started at the very same time Alexander Hamilton began to climb How to account for his rise to the top? Maaaaan, the man is
Non-stop! Non-stop!
Gentlemen of the jury, I’m curious, bear with me Gentlemen of the jury, I’m curious, bear with me Are you aware that we’re making hist’ry? This is the first murder trial of our brand-new nation The liberty behind Deliberation—
Non-stop! Non-stop!
I intend to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt I intend to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt With my assistant counsel—
Co-counsel Co-counsel Hamilton, sit down Our client Levi Weeks is innocent. Call your first witness That’s all you had to say!
Okay! Okay! One more thing—
Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Soon that attitude may be your doom!
Awwww! Awwww!
Why do you write like you’re running out of time? Why do you write like you’re running out of time? Write day and night like you’re running out of time? Ev’ry day you fight, like you’re running out of time Keep on fighting. In the meantime—	ENSEMBLE Why do you write like you’re running out of time? Ev’ry day you fight, like you’re running out of time Non-stop!
Corruption’s such an old song that we can sing along in harmony Corruption’s such an old song that we can sing along in harmony And nowhere is it stronger than in Albany This colony’s economy’s increasingly stalling and
Honestly, that’s why public service Honestly, that’s why public service Seems to be calling me	BURR & ENSEMBLE He’s just Non-stop!
I practiced the law, I practic’ly perfected it I practiced the law, I practic’ly perfected it I’ve seen injustice in the world and I’ve corrected it Now for a strong central democracy If not, then I’ll be Socrates Throwing verbal rocks at these mediocrities
Awww! Awww!
Hamilton, at the Constitutional Convention: Hamilton, at the Constitutional Convention:
I was chosen for the Constitutional Convention! I was chosen for the Constitutional Convention!
There as a New York junior delegate: There as a New York junior delegate:
Now what I’m going to say may sound indelicate… Now what I’m going to say may sound indelicate…
Goes and proposes his own form of government! Goes and proposes his own form of government! His own plan for a new form of government!
Awwww! Awwww! What? What?
Talks for six hours! The convention is listless! Talks for six hours! The convention is listless!
Bright young man… Bright young man…
Yo, who the f is this? Yo, who the f is this?
Why do you always say what you believe? Why do you always say what you believe? Why do you always say what you believe? Ev’ry proclamation guarantees free ammunition for your enemies!
Why do you write like it’s Why do you write like it’s Going out of style? Write day and night like it’s Going out of style?
Why do you always say what you believe? Why do you always say what you believe? Awww!
Going out of style, hey! Going out of style, hey! Going out of style, hey!
Ev’ry day you fight like it’s Ev’ry day you fight like it’s Going out of style Do what you do
Alexander? Alexander?
Aaron Burr, sir Aaron Burr, sir
It’s the middle of the night It’s the middle of the night
Can we confer, sir? Can we confer, sir?
Is this a legal matter? Is this a legal matter?
Yes, and it’s important to me Yes, and it’s important to me
What do you need? What do you need?
Burr, you’re a better lawyer than me Burr, you’re a better lawyer than me
Okay Okay
I know I talk too much, I’m abrasive I know I talk too much, I’m abrasive You’re incredible in court. You’re succinct, persuasive My client needs a strong defense. You’re the solution
Who’s your client? Who’s your client?
The new U.S. Constitution? The new U.S. Constitution?
No No
Hear me out Hear me out
No way! No way!
A series of essays, anonymously published A series of essays, anonymously published Defending the document to the public
No one will read it No one will read it
I disagree I disagree
And if it fails? And if it fails?
Burr, that’s why we need it Burr, that’s why we need it
The constitution’s a mess The constitution’s a mess
So it needs amendments So it needs amendments
It’s full of contradictions It’s full of contradictions
So is independence So is independence We have to start somewhere
No. No way No. No way
You’re making a mistake You’re making a mistake
Good night Good night
Hey Hey What are you waiting for? What do you stall for?
What? What?
We won the war We won the war What was it all for? Do you support this constitution?
Of course Of course
Then defend it Then defend it
And what if you’re backing the wrong horse? And what if you’re backing the wrong horse?
Burr, we studied and we fought and we killed Burr, we studied and we fought and we killed For the notion of a nation we now get to build For once in your life, take a stand with pride I don’t understand how you stand to the side
I’ll keep all my plans I’ll keep all my plans Close to my chest I’ll wait here and see Which way the wind Will blow I’m taking my time Watching the Afterbirth of a nation Watching the tension grow
Wait for it, wait for Wait for it, wait for It, wait… Which way the wind Will blow I’m taking my time Watching the Afterbirth of a nation Watching the tension grow
I am sailing off to London I am sailing off to London I’m accompanied by someone who always pays I have found a wealthy husband Who will keep me in comfort for all my days He is not a lot of fun, but there’s no one Who can match you for turn of phrase My Alexander
Angelica Angelica
Don’t forget to write Don’t forget to write
Look at where you are Look at where you are Look at where you started The fact that you’re alive is a miracle Just stay alive, that would be enough And if your wife could share a fraction of your time If I could grant you peace of mind Would that be enough?
Alexander joins forces with James Madison and John Jay to write a series of essays defending the new United States Constitution, entitled The Federalist Papers. The plan was to write a total of twenty-five essays, the work divided evenly among the three men. In the end, they wrote eighty-five essays, in the span of six months. John Jay got sick after writing five. James Madison wrote twenty-nine. Hamilton wrote the other fifty-one! Alexander joins forces with James Madison and John Jay to write a series of essays defending the new United States Constitution, entitled The Federalist Papers. The plan was to write a total of twenty-five essays, the work divided evenly among the three men. In the end, they wrote eighty-five essays, in the span of six months. John Jay got sick after writing five. James Madison wrote twenty-nine. Hamilton wrote the other fifty-one!
How do you write like you’re How do you write like you’re Running out of time? Write day and night like you’re Running out of time?
Ev’ry day you fight like you’re Ev’ry day you fight like you’re Running out of time like you’re Running out of time Are you running out of time?
Running out of time? Running out of time? Running out of time? Running out of time Running out of time Awwww!
How do you write like tomorrow won’t arrive? How do you write like tomorrow won’t arrive? How do you write like you need it to survive? How do you write ev’ry second you’re alive? Ev’ry second you’re alive? Ev’ry second you’re alive?
They are asking me to lead They are asking me to lead I am doing the best I can To get the people that I need I’m asking you to be my right hand man
Treasury or State? Treasury or State?
I know it’s a lot to ask I know it’s a lot to ask
Treasury or State? Treasury or State?
To leave behind the world you know… To leave behind the world you know…
Sir, do you want me to run the Treasury or State department? Sir, do you want me to run the Treasury or State department?
Treasury Treasury
Let’s go Let’s go
Alexander… Alexander…
I have to leave I have to leave
Alexander— Alexander—
Look around, look around at how lucky we are to be alive right now Look around, look around at how lucky we are to be alive right now
Helpless… Helpless…
They are asking me to lead They are asking me to lead
Look around, isn’t this enough? Look around, isn’t this enough?
He will never be satisfied He will never be satisfied He will never be satisfied Satisfied Satisfied… He will never be satisfied Satisfied… Satisfied… Why do you fight like
What would be enough What would be enough To Be satisfied Satisfied Satisfied… Look around Look around! Isn’t this enough? What would be enough? Why do you fight like
History has its eyes… History has its eyes… On… You!
History has its eyes… History has its eyes… On… You…
Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Why do you assume you’re the smartest in the room? Soon that attitude’s gonna be your doom! Why do you fight like you’re running out of time? Why do you fight like All Non-stop! Non-stop! Non-stop! Non-stop!
History has its eyes on you History has its eyes on you
I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am not throwin’ away my shot! I am Alexander Hamilton! I am not throwin’ away my shot!
Seventeen. Se- se- seventeen… Seventeen. Se- se- seventeen… Se- se- seventeen…
1789 1789 How does the bastard orphan Immigrant decorated war vet Unite the colonies through more debt? Fight the other founding fathers til he has to forfeit? Have it all, lose it all You ready for more yet? Treasury Secretary. Washington’s the President Ev’ry American experiment sets a precedent Not so fast. Someone came along to resist him Pissed him off until we had a two-party system You haven’t met him yet, you haven’t had the chance ‘cause he’s been kickin’ ass as the ambassador to France But someone’s gotta keep the American promise You simply must meet Thomas. Thomas!
Thomas Jefferson’s coming home! Thomas Jefferson’s coming home! Thomas Jefferson’s coming home! Thomas Jefferson’s coming home! Thomas Jefferson’s coming home! Thomas Jefferson’s coming home Lord he’s Been off in Paris for so long! Aaa-ooo! Aaa-ooo!
France is following us to revolution France is following us to revolution There is no more status quo But the sun comes up And the world still spins
Aaa-ooo! Aaa-ooo!
I helped Lafayette draft a declaration I helped Lafayette draft a declaration Then I said, ‘I gotta go I gotta be in Monticello.’ Now the work at home begins…
Aaa-ooo! Aaa-ooo!
So what’d I miss? So what’d I miss? What’d I miss? Virginia, my home sweet home, I wanna give you a kiss I’ve been in Paris meeting lots of different ladies… I guess I basic’lly missed the late eighties… I traveled the wide, wide world and came back to this…
Aaa-ooo! Aaa-ooo!
There’s a letter on my desk from the President There’s a letter on my desk from the President Haven’t even put my bags down yet Sally be a lamb, darlin’, won’tcha open it? It says the President’s assembling a cabinet And that I am to be the Secretary of State, great! And that I’m already Senate-approved… I just got home and now I’m headed up to New York
Headin’ to New York! Headin’ to New York! Headin’ to New York!
Lookin’ at the rolling fields Lookin’ at the rolling fields I can’t believe that we are free Ready to face Whatever’s awaiting Me in N.Y.C.
Believe that we are free Believe that we are free Me in N.Y.C.
But who’s waitin’ for me when I step in the place? But who’s waitin’ for me when I step in the place? My friend James Madison, red in the face
He grabs my arm and He grabs my arm and I respond “What’s goin’ on?”
Aaa-ooo! Aaa-ooo!
Thomas, we are engaged in a battle for our nation’s very soul Thomas, we are engaged in a battle for our nation’s very soul Can you get us out of the mess we’re in?
Aaa-ooo! Aaa-ooo!
Hamilton’s new financial plan is nothing less Hamilton’s new financial plan is nothing less Than government control I’ve been fighting for the South alone Where have you been?
Aaa-ooo!	JEFFERSON Aaa-ooo!	JEFFERSON Uh…France.
We have to win We have to win
What’d I miss? What’d I miss? What’d I miss? Headfirst into a political abyss! I have my first cabinet meeting today I guess I better think of something to say I’m already on my way Let’s get to the bottom of this…
Wha? Wha? What’d I miss? Wha? Wha? What’d I miss? I’ve come home to this? Headfirst, into the abyss! Chik-a-pow! On my way What did I miss? Ahhh ah!
Mr. Jefferson, welcome home Mr. Jefferson, welcome home
Mr. Jefferson? Alexander Hamilton Mr. Jefferson? Alexander Hamilton
Mr. Jefferson, welcome home Mr. Jefferson, welcome home
Mr. Jefferson, welcome home Mr. Jefferson, welcome home Sir, you’ve been off in Paris for so long!
So what did I miss? So what did I miss?
Ladies and gentlemen, you coulda been anywhere in the world tonight, but you’re here with us in New York City. Are you ready for a cabinet meeting??? Ladies and gentlemen, you coulda been anywhere in the world tonight, but you’re here with us in New York City. Are you ready for a cabinet meeting??? The issue on the table: Secretary Hamilton’s plan to assume state debt and establish a national bank. Secretary Jefferson, you have the floor, sir
‘Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.’ ‘Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.’ We fought for these ideals; we shouldn’t settle for less These are wise words, enterprising men quote ‘em Don’t act surprised, you guys, cuz I wrote ‘em
Oww Oww
But Hamilton forgets But Hamilton forgets His plan would have the government assume state’s debts Now, place your bets as to who that benefits: The very seat of government where Hamilton sits
Not true! Not true!
Ooh, if the shoe fits, wear it Ooh, if the shoe fits, wear it If New York’s in debt— Why should Virginia bear it? Uh! Our debts are paid, I’m afraid Don’t tax the South cuz we got it made in the shade In Virginia, we plant seeds in the ground We create. You just wanna move our money around This financial plan is an outrageous demand And it’s too many damn pages for any man to understand Stand with me in the land of the free And pray to God we never see Hamilton’s candidacy Look, when Britain taxed our tea, we got frisky Imagine what gon’ happen when you try to tax our whisky CROWD (reacting) That's my alcohol!
Thank you, Secretary Jefferson Thank you, Secretary Jefferson Secretary Hamilton, your response
Thomas. That was a real nice declaration Thomas. That was a real nice declaration Welcome to the present, we’re running a real nation Would you like to join us, or stay mellow Doin’ whatever the hell it is you do in Monticello? If we assume the debts, the union gets A new line of credit, a financial diuretic How do you not get it? If we’re aggressive and competitive The union gets a boost. You’d rather give it a sedative? A civics lesson from a slaver. Hey neighbor Your debts are paid cuz you don’t pay for labor “We plant seeds in the South. We create.” Yeah, keep ranting We know who’s really doing the planting And another thing, Mr. Age of Enlightenment Don’t lecture me about the war, you didn’t fight in it You think I’m frightened of you, man? We almost died in a trench While you were off getting high with the French Thomas Jefferson, always hesitant with the President Reticent—there isn’t a plan he doesn’t jettison Madison, you’re mad as a hatter, son, take your medicine Damn, you’re in worse shape than the national debt is in Sittin’ there useless as two shits Hey, turn around, bend over, I’ll show you Where my shoe fits
Excuse me? Madison, Jefferson, take a walk! Hamilton, take a walk! We’ll reconvene after a brief recess. Hamilton! Excuse me? Madison, Jefferson, take a walk! Hamilton, take a walk! We’ll reconvene after a brief recess. Hamilton!
Sir! Sir!
A word A word
You don’t have the votes You don’t have the votes
You don’t have the votes You don’t have the votes
Aha-ha-ha ha! Aha-ha-ha ha!
You’re gonna need congressional approval and you don’t have the votes You’re gonna need congressional approval and you don’t have the votes
Such a blunder sometimes it makes me wonder why I even bring the thunder Such a blunder sometimes it makes me wonder why I even bring the thunder
Why he even brings the thunder… Why he even brings the thunder…
You wanna pull yourself together? You wanna pull yourself together?
I’m sorry, these Virginians are birds of a feather I’m sorry, these Virginians are birds of a feather
Young man, I’m from Virginia, so watch your mouth Young man, I’m from Virginia, so watch your mouth
So we let Congress get held hostage by the South? So we let Congress get held hostage by the South?
You need the votes You need the votes
No, we need bold strokes. We need this plan No, we need bold strokes. We need this plan
No, you need to convince more folks No, you need to convince more folks
James Madison won’t talk to me, that’s a nonstarter James Madison won’t talk to me, that’s a nonstarter
Winning was easy, young man. Governing’s harder Winning was easy, young man. Governing’s harder
They’re being intransigent They’re being intransigent
You have to find a compromise You have to find a compromise
But they don’t have a plan, they just hate mine! But they don’t have a plan, they just hate mine!
Convince them otherwise Convince them otherwise
What happens if I don’t get congressional approval? What happens if I don’t get congressional approval?
I imagine they’ll call for your removal I imagine they’ll call for your removal
Sir— Sir—
Figure it out, Alexander. That’s an order from your commander Figure it out, Alexander. That’s an order from your commander
Un deux trois quatre Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept huit neuf Good! Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept huit neuf Sept huit neuf— Sept huit neuf—
Un deux trois quatre Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept huit neuf Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept huit neuf Sept huit neuf— Sept huit neuf—
One two three four five six seven eight nine! One two three four five six seven eight nine!
My dearest, Angelica My dearest, Angelica “Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow Creeps in this petty pace from day to day” I trust you’ll understand the reference to Another Scottish tragedy without my having to name the play They think me Macbeth, and ambition is my folly I’m a polymath, a pain in the ass, a massive pain Madison is Banquo, Jefferson’s Macduff And Birnam Wood is Congress on its way to Dunsinane
And there you are, an ocean away And there you are, an ocean away Do you have to live an ocean away? Thoughts of you subside Then I get another letter I cannot put the notion away…
Take a break Take a break
I am on my way I am on my way
There’s a little surprise before supper There’s a little surprise before supper And it cannot wait
I’ll be there in just a minute, save my plate I’ll be there in just a minute, save my plate
Alexander— Alexander—
Okay, okay— Okay, okay—
Your son is nine years old today Your son is nine years old today And he has something that he’d like to say He’s been practicing all day Philip, take it away—
Daddy, daddy, look— Daddy, daddy, look— My name is Philip I am a poet I wrote this poem just To show it And I just turned nine You can write rhymes But you can’t write mine I practice French And play piano with my mother I have a sister, but I want a little brother My daddy’s trying to start America’s bank Un deux trois quatre cinq!
What! What! Uh-huh! Okay! Bravo!
Take a break Take a break
Hey, our kid is pretty great Hey, our kid is pretty great
Run away with us for the summer Run away with us for the summer Let’s go upstate
Eliza, I’ve got so much on my plate Eliza, I’ve got so much on my plate
We can all go stay with my father We can all go stay with my father There’s a lake I know…
I know I know
In a nearby park In a nearby park
I’d love to go I’d love to go
You and I can go when the night gets dark… You and I can go when the night gets dark…
I will try to get away I will try to get away
My dearest Alexander My dearest Alexander You must get through to Jefferson Sit down with him and compromise Don’t stop ‘til you agree Your fav’rite older sister Angelica, reminds you There’s someone in your corner all the way across the sea In a letter I received from you two weeks ago I noticed a comma in the middle of a phrase It changed the meaning. Did you intend this? One stroke and you’ve consumed my waking days It says:
“My dearest Angelica” “My dearest Angelica”
With a comma after “dearest.” You’ve written With a comma after “dearest.” You’ve written
“My dearest, Angelica.” “My dearest, Angelica.”
Anyway, all this to say Anyway, all this to say I’m coming home this summer At my sister’s invitation I’ll be there with your fam’ly If you make your way upstate I know you’re very busy I know your work’s important But I’m crossing the ocean and I just can’t wait
You won’t be an ocean away You won’t be an ocean away You will only be a moment away…
Alexander, come downstairs. Angelica’s arriving today! Alexander, come downstairs. Angelica’s arriving today!
Angelica! Angelica!
Eliza! Eliza!
The Schuyler sisters! The Schuyler sisters!
Alexander Alexander
Hi Hi
It’s good to see your face It’s good to see your face
Angelica, tell this man John Adams spends the summer with his family Angelica, tell this man John Adams spends the summer with his family
Angelica, tell my wife John Adams doesn’t have a real job anyway Angelica, tell my wife John Adams doesn’t have a real job anyway
…you’re not joining us? Wait …you’re not joining us? Wait
I’m afraid I cannot join you upstate I’m afraid I cannot join you upstate
Alexander, I came all this way Alexander, I came all this way
She came all this way— She came all this way—
All this way— All this way—
Take a break Take a break
You know I have to get my plan through Congress You know I have to get my plan through Congress
Run away with us for the summer Run away with us for the summer Let’s go upstate
I lose my job if I don’t get my plan through Congress I lose my job if I don’t get my plan through Congress
We can all go stay with our father We can all go stay with our father
There’s a lake I know There’s a lake I know In a nearby park You and I can go Take a break and get away— Let’s go upstate Where we can stay Look around, look around At how lucky we are to be alive right now— We can go— When the night gets dark Take a break.
I know I’ll miss your face— I know I’ll miss your face— Screw your courage to the sticking place— Eliza’s right— Take a break Run away with us for the summer— Let’s go upstate We can all go stay with our father If you take your time— You will make your mark Close your eyes and dream— When the night gets dark Take a break.
I have to get my plan through Congress I have to get my plan through Congress I can’t stop until I get this plan through Congress
There’s nothing like summer in the city There’s nothing like summer in the city Someone under stress meets someone looking pretty There’s trouble in the air, you can smell it And Alexander’s by himself. I’ll let him tell it
I hadn’t slept in a week I hadn’t slept in a week I was weak, I was awake You never seen a bastard orphan More in need of a break Longing for Angelica Missing my wife That’s when Miss Maria Reynolds walked into my life, she said:
I know you are a man of honor I know you are a man of honor I’m so sorry to bother you at home But I don’t know where to go, and I came here all alone…
She said: She said:
My husband’s doin’ me wrong My husband’s doin’ me wrong Beatin’ me, cheatin’ me, mistreatin’ me… Suddenly he’s up and gone I don’t have the means to go on
So I offered her a loan, I offered to walk her home, she said So I offered her a loan, I offered to walk her home, she said
You’re too kind, sir You’re too kind, sir
I gave her thirty bucks that I had socked away I gave her thirty bucks that I had socked away She lived a block away, she said:
This one’s mine, sir This one’s mine, sir
Then I said, “well, I should head back home,” Then I said, “well, I should head back home,” She turned red, she led me to her bed Let her legs spread and said:
Stay? Stay?
Hey… Hey…
Hey… Hey…
That’s when I began to pray: That’s when I began to pray: Lord, show me how to Say no to this I don’t know how to Say no to this But my God, she looks so helpless And her body’s saying, “hell, yes”
Whoa… Whoa…
Nooo, show me how to Nooo, show me how to
Say no to this Say no to this
I don’t know how to I don’t know how to
Say no to this Say no to this
In my mind, I’m tryin’ to go In my mind, I’m tryin’ to go
Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!
Then her mouth is on mine, and I don’t say… Then her mouth is on mine, and I don’t say…
No! No! No! No! Say no to this! No! No! Say no to this! No! No! Say no to this! No! No! Say no to this!
I wish I could say that was the last time I wish I could say that was the last time I said that last time. It became a pastime A month into this endeavor I received a letter From a Mr. James Reynolds, even better, it said:
Dear Sir, I hope this letter finds you in good health Dear Sir, I hope this letter finds you in good health And in a prosperous enough position to put wealth In the pockets of people like me: down on their luck You see, that was my wife who you decided to
Fuuuu— Fuuuu—
Uh-oh! You made the wrong sucker a cuckold Uh-oh! You made the wrong sucker a cuckold So time to pay the piper for the pants you unbuckled And hey, you can keep seein’ my whore wife If the price is right: if not I’m telling your wife
I hid the letter and I raced to her place I hid the letter and I raced to her place Screamed “How could you?!” in her face She said:
No, sir! No, sir!
Half dressed, apologetic. A mess, she looked Half dressed, apologetic. A mess, she looked Pathetic, she cried:
Please don’t go, sir! Please don’t go, sir!
So was your whole story a setup? So was your whole story a setup?
I don’t know about any letter! I don’t know about any letter!
Stop crying Stop crying Goddamnit, get up!
I didn’t know any better I didn’t know any better
I am ruined… I am ruined…
Please don’t leave me with him helpless Please don’t leave me with him helpless Just give him what he wants and you can have me Whatever you want,
I am helpless—how could I do this? I am helpless—how could I do this? I don’t want you I don’t want you
If you pay If you pay You can stay Tonight Helpless Whoa! How can you Say no to this?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes.	HAMILTON I don’t… Lord, show me how to Say no to this I don’t know how to Say no to this Cuz the situation’s helpless And her body’s screaming, “Hell, yes” No, show me how to Say no to this How can I Say no to this? There is nowhere I can go When her body’s on mine I do not say…
Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes!
Say no to this! Say no to this! Say no to this! Say no to this! Say no to this! Go! Go! Go! No!
Say no to this! Say no to this! No! Say no to this! No! Say no to this! No! Say no to this!
Say no to this… Say no to this… I don’t say no to this There is nowhere I can go.
Don’t say no to this Don’t say no to this
Go go go… Go go go…
So? So?
Nobody needs to know Nobody needs to know
Ah, Mister Secretary Ah, Mister Secretary
Mister Burr, sir Mister Burr, sir
Didja hear the news about good old General Mercer? Didja hear the news about good old General Mercer?
No No
You know Clermont Street? You know Clermont Street?
Yeah Yeah
They renamed it after him. The Mercer legacy is secure They renamed it after him. The Mercer legacy is secure
Sure Sure
And all he had to do was die And all he had to do was die
That’s a lot less work That’s a lot less work
We oughta give it a try We oughta give it a try
Ha Ha
Now how’re you gonna get your debt plan through? Now how’re you gonna get your debt plan through?
I guess I’m gonna fin’ly have to listen to you I guess I’m gonna fin’ly have to listen to you
Really? Really?
“Talk less. Smile more.” “Talk less. Smile more.”
Ha Ha
Do whatever it takes to get my plan on the Congress floor Do whatever it takes to get my plan on the Congress floor
Now, Madison and Jefferson are merciless. Now, Madison and Jefferson are merciless.
Well, hate the sin, love the sinner Well, hate the sin, love the sinner
Hamilton! Hamilton!
I’m sorry Burr, I’ve gotta go I’m sorry Burr, I’ve gotta go
But— But—
Decisions are happening over dinner Decisions are happening over dinner
Two Virginians and an immigrant walk into a room Two Virginians and an immigrant walk into a room
Diametric’ly opposed, foes Diametric’ly opposed, foes
They emerge with a compromise, having opened doors that were They emerge with a compromise, having opened doors that were
Previously closed Previously closed
Bros Bros
The immigrant emerges with unprecedented financial power The immigrant emerges with unprecedented financial power A system he can shape however he wants The Virginians emerge with the nation’s capital And here’s the pièce de résistance:
No one else was in No one else was in The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened No one else was in The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened No one really knows how the game is played The art of the trade How the sausage gets made We just assume that it happens But no one else is in The room where it happens.
The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened How the sausage gets made Assume that it happens The room where it happens.
Thomas claims— Thomas claims—
Alexander was on Washington’s doorstep one day Alexander was on Washington’s doorstep one day In distress ‘n disarray
Thomas claims— Thomas claims—
Alexander said— Alexander said—
I’ve nowhere else to turn! I’ve nowhere else to turn!
And basic’ly begged me to join the fray And basic’ly begged me to join the fray
Thomas claims— Thomas claims—
I approached Madison and said— I approached Madison and said— “I know you hate ‘im, but let’s hear what he has to say.”
Thomas claims— Thomas claims—
Well, I arranged the meeting Well, I arranged the meeting I arranged the menu, the venue, the seating
But! But! No one else was in—
The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened
No one else was in— No one else was in—
The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened
No one really knows how the No one really knows how the Parties get to yesssss The pieces that are sacrificed in Ev’ry game of chesssss We just assume that it happens But no one else is in The room where it happens.
Parties get to yesssss Parties get to yesssss Ev’ry game of chesssss Assume that it happens The room where it happens.
Meanwhile— Meanwhile—
Madison is grappling with the fact that not ev’ry issue can be settled by committee Madison is grappling with the fact that not ev’ry issue can be settled by committee
Meanwhile— Meanwhile—
Congress is fighting over where to put the capital— Congress is fighting over where to put the capital— Company screams in chaos
It isn’t pretty It isn’t pretty Then Jefferson approaches with a dinner and invite And Madison responds with Virginian insight:
Maybe we can solve one problem with another and win a victory for the Southerners, in other words— Maybe we can solve one problem with another and win a victory for the Southerners, in other words—
Oh-ho! Oh-ho!
A quid pro quo A quid pro quo
I suppose I suppose
Wouldn’t you like to work a little closer to home? Wouldn’t you like to work a little closer to home?
Actually, I would Actually, I would
Well, I propose the Potomac Well, I propose the Potomac
And you’ll provide him his votes? And you’ll provide him his votes?
Well, we’ll see how it goes Well, we’ll see how it goes
Let’s go Let’s go
No! No!
—one else was in —one else was in The room where it happened
The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened No one else was in The room where it happened The room where it happened The room where it happened
My God! My God!
In God we trust In God we trust But we’ll never really know what got discussed Click-boom then it happened
And no one else was in the room where it happened And no one else was in the room where it happened
Alexander Hamilton! Alexander Hamilton!
What did they say to you to get you to sell New York City down the river? What did they say to you to get you to sell New York City down the river?
Alexander Hamilton! Alexander Hamilton!
Did Washington know about the dinner? Did Washington know about the dinner? Was there Presidential pressure to deliver?
Alexander Hamilton! Alexander Hamilton!
Or did you know, even then, it doesn’t matter Or did you know, even then, it doesn’t matter Where you put the U.S. Capital?
Cuz we’ll have the banks Cuz we’ll have the banks We’re in the same spot
You got more than you gave You got more than you gave
And I wanted what I got And I wanted what I got When you got skin in the game, you stay in the game But you don’t get a win unless you play in the game Oh, you get love for it. You get hate for it You get nothing if you…
Wait for it, wait for it, wait! Wait for it, wait for it, wait!
God help and forgive me God help and forgive me I wanna build Something that’s gonna Outlive me
===
What do you want, Burr? What do you want, Burr? What do you want, Burr? If you stand for nothing Burr, then what do you fall for?
What do you want, Burr? What do you want, Burr? What do you want, Burr? What do you want, Burr? What do you want?
Wanna be in Wanna be in The room where it happens The room where it happens
Wanna be in Wanna be in The room where it happens The room where it happens
Wanna be Wanna be In the room where it happens
I wanna be in the room… I wanna be in the room… Oh Oh I wanna be I wanna be I’ve got to be I’ve got to be In that room In that big ol’ room	COMPANY I wanna be in The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens I wanna be in the room Where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens I wanna be in The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens I wanna be in The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens.
The art of the compromise— The art of the compromise—
Hold your nose and close your eyes Hold your nose and close your eyes
We want our leaders to save the day— We want our leaders to save the day—
But we don’t get a say in what they trade away But we don’t get a say in what they trade away
We dream of a brand new start— We dream of a brand new start—
But we dream in the dark for the most part But we dream in the dark for the most part
Dark as a tomb where it happens Dark as a tomb where it happens
I’ve got to be in I’ve got to be in The room… I’ve got to be… I’ve got to be… Oh, I’ve got to be in The room where it happens… I’ve got to be, I’ve gotta be, I’ve gotta be… In the room! Click-boom!
The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens I wanna be in the room Where it happens! Click-boom!
Look! Look! Grandpa’s in the paper! “War hero Philip Schuyler loses senate seat to young upstart Aaron Burr” Grandpa just lost his seat in the senate
Sometimes that’s how it goes Sometimes that’s how it goes
Daddy’s gonna find out any minute Daddy’s gonna find out any minute
I’m sure he already knows I’m sure he already knows
Further down Further down
Further down Further down
Let’s meet the newest senator from New York Let’s meet the newest senator from New York
New York New York
Our senator Our senator
Burr? Burr? Since when are you a Democratic-Republican?
Since being one put me on the up and up again Since being one put me on the up and up again
No one knows who you are or what you do No one knows who you are or what you do
They don’t need to know me They don’t need to know me They don’t like you
Excuse me? Excuse me?
Oh, Wall Street thinks you’re great Oh, Wall Street thinks you’re great You’ll always be adored by the things you create But upstate—
Wait Wait
—people think you’re crooked —people think you’re crooked Schuyler’s seat was up for grabs so I took it
I’ve always considered you a friend I’ve always considered you a friend
I don’t see why that has to end I don’t see why that has to end
You changed parties to run against my father-in-law You changed parties to run against my father-in-law
I changed parties to seize the opportunity I saw I changed parties to seize the opportunity I saw I swear your pride will be the death of us all Beware, it goeth before the fall
The issue on the table: France is on the verge of war with England, and do we provide aid and our troops to our French allies or do we stay out of it? Remember, my decision on this matter is not subject to congressional approval. The only person you have to convince is me. Secretary Jefferson, you have the floor, sir The issue on the table: France is on the verge of war with England, and do we provide aid and our troops to our French allies or do we stay out of it? Remember, my decision on this matter is not subject to congressional approval. The only person you have to convince is me. Secretary Jefferson, you have the floor, sir
When we were on death’s door, when we were needy When we were on death’s door, when we were needy We made a promise, we signed a treaty We needed money and guns and half a chance Who provided those funds?
France France
In return, they didn’t ask for land In return, they didn’t ask for land Only a promise that we’d lend a hand And stand with them if they fought against oppressors And revolution is messy but now is the time to stand Stand with our brothers as they fight against tyranny I know that Alexander Hamilton is here and he Would rather not have this debate I’ll remind you that he is not Secretary of State He knows nothing of loyalty Smells like new money, dresses like fake royalty Desperate to rise above his station Everything he does betrays the ideals of our nation
Ooh!! Ooh!!
Hey, and if ya don’t know, now ya know, Mr. President Hey, and if ya don’t know, now ya know, Mr. President
Thank you, Secretary Jefferson. Secretary Hamilton, your response Thank you, Secretary Jefferson. Secretary Hamilton, your response
You must be out of your Goddamn mind if you think You must be out of your Goddamn mind if you think The President is gonna bring the nation to the brink Of meddling in the middle of a military mess A game of chess, where France is Queen and Kingless We signed a treaty with a King whose head is now in a basket Would you like to take it out and ask it? “Should we honor our treaty, King Louis’ head?” “Uh… do whatever you want, I’m super dead.”
Enough. Hamilton is right Enough. Hamilton is right
Mr. President— Mr. President—
We’re too fragile to start another fight We’re too fragile to start another fight
But sir, do we not fight for freedom? But sir, do we not fight for freedom?
Sure, when the French figure out who’s gonna lead ‘em Sure, when the French figure out who’s gonna lead ‘em
The people are leading— The people are leading—
The people are rioting The people are rioting There’s a difference. Frankly, it’s a little disquieting you would let your ideals blind you to reality Hamilton
Sir Sir
Draft a statement of neutrality Draft a statement of neutrality
Did you forget Lafayette? Did you forget Lafayette?
What? What?
Have you an ounce of regret? Have you an ounce of regret? You accumulate debt, you accumulate power Yet in their hour of need, you forget
Lafayette’s a smart man, he’ll be fine Lafayette’s a smart man, he’ll be fine And before he was your friend, he was mine If we try to fight in every revolution in the world, we never stop Where do we draw the line?
So quick-witted So quick-witted
Alas, I admit it Alas, I admit it
I bet you were quite a lawyer I bet you were quite a lawyer
My defendants got acquitted My defendants got acquitted
Yeah. Well, someone oughta remind you Yeah. Well, someone oughta remind you
What? What?
You’re nothing without Washington behind you You’re nothing without Washington behind you
Hamilton! Hamilton!
Daddy’s calling! Daddy’s calling!
It must be nice, it must be nice to have It must be nice, it must be nice to have Washington on your side It must be nice, it must be nice to have Washington on your side
Ev’ry action has its equal, opposite reactions Ev’ry action has its equal, opposite reactions Thanks to Hamilton, our cab’net’s fractured into factions Try not to crack under the stress, we’re breaking down like fractions We smack each other in the press, and we don’t print retractions I get no satisfaction witnessing his fits of passion The way he primps and preens and dresses like the pits of fashion Our poorest citizens, our farmers, live ration to ration As Wall Street robs ‘em blind in search of chips to cash in This prick is askin’ for someone to bring him to task Somebody gimme some dirt on this vacuous mass so we can at last unmask him I’ll pull the trigger on him, someone load the gun and cock it While we were all watching, he got Washington in his pocket
It must be nice, it must be nice to have It must be nice, it must be nice to have Washington on your side It must be nice, it must be nice to have Washington on your side Look back at the Bill of Rights
Which I wrote Which I wrote
The ink hasn’t dried The ink hasn’t dried It must be nice, it must be nice to have Washington on your side
So he’s doubled the size of the government So he’s doubled the size of the government Wasn’t the trouble with much of our previous government size?
Look in his eyes! Look in his eyes!
See how he lies See how he lies
Follow the scent of his enterprise Follow the scent of his enterprise
Centralizing national credit Centralizing national credit And making American credit competitive
If we don’t stop it we aid and abet it If we don’t stop it we aid and abet it
I have to resign I have to resign
Somebody has to stand up for the South! Somebody has to stand up for the South!
Somebody has to stand up to his mouth! Somebody has to stand up to his mouth!
If there’s a fire you’re trying to douse If there’s a fire you’re trying to douse
You can’t put it out from inside the house You can’t put it out from inside the house
I’m in the cabinet. I am complicit in I’m in the cabinet. I am complicit in Watching him grabbin’ at power and kiss it If Washington isn’t gon’ listen To disciplined dissidents, this is the difference: This kid is out!
Oh! Oh! This immigrant isn’t somebody we chose Oh! This immigrant’s keeping us all on our toes Oh! Let’s show these Federalists who they’re up against! Oh!
Southern motherfuckin’— Southern motherfuckin’—
Democratic-Republicans! Democratic-Republicans!
Oh! Oh!
Let’s follow the money and see where it goes Let’s follow the money and see where it goes
Oh! Oh!
Because every second the Treasury grows Because every second the Treasury grows
Oh! Oh!
If we follow the money and see where it leads If we follow the money and see where it leads Get in the weeds, look for the seeds of Hamilton’s misdeeds
It must be nice. It must be nice It must be nice. It must be nice
Follow the money and see where it goes Follow the money and see where it goes
It must be nice. It must be nice It must be nice. It must be nice
The emperor has no clothes The emperor has no clothes
We won’t be invisible. We won’t be denied We won’t be invisible. We won’t be denied Still It must be nice, it must be nice to have Washington on your side
Mr. President, you asked to see me? Mr. President, you asked to see me?
I know you’re busy I know you’re busy
What do you need, sir? Sir? What do you need, sir? Sir?
I wanna give you a word of warning I wanna give you a word of warning
Sir, I don’t know what you heard Sir, I don’t know what you heard But whatever it is, Jefferson started it
Thomas Jefferson resigned this morning Thomas Jefferson resigned this morning
You’re kidding You’re kidding
I need a favor I need a favor
Whatever you say, sir, Jefferson will pay for his behavior Whatever you say, sir, Jefferson will pay for his behavior
Shh. Talk less Shh. Talk less
I’ll use the press I’ll use the press I’ll write under a pseudonym, you’ll see what I can do to him—
I need you to draft an address I need you to draft an address
Yes! He resigned. You can finally speak your mind— Yes! He resigned. You can finally speak your mind—
No, he’s stepping down so he can run for President No, he’s stepping down so he can run for President
Ha. Good luck defeating you, sir Ha. Good luck defeating you, sir
I’m stepping down. I’m not running for President I’m stepping down. I’m not running for President
I’m sorry, what? I’m sorry, what?
One last time One last time Relax, have a drink with me One last time Let’s take a break tonight And then we’ll teach them how to say goodbye To say goodbye You and I
No, sir, why? No, sir, why?
I wanna talk about neutrality I wanna talk about neutrality
Sir, with Britain and France on the verge of war, is this the best time— Sir, with Britain and France on the verge of war, is this the best time—
I want to warn against partisan fighting I want to warn against partisan fighting
But— But—
Pick up a pen, start writing Pick up a pen, start writing I wanna talk about what I have learned The hard-won wisdom I have earned
As far as the people are concerned As far as the people are concerned You have to serve, you could continue to serve—
No! One last time No! One last time The people will hear from me One last time And if we get this right We’re gonna teach ‘em how to say Goodbye You and I—
Mr. President, they will say you’re weak Mr. President, they will say you’re weak
No, they will see we’re strong No, they will see we’re strong
Your position is so unique Your position is so unique
So I’ll use it to move them along So I’ll use it to move them along
Why do you have to say goodbye? Why do you have to say goodbye?
If I say goodbye, the nation learns to move on If I say goodbye, the nation learns to move on It outlives me when I’m gone Like the scripture says: “Everyone shall sit under their own vine and fig tree And no one shall make them afraid.” They’ll be safe in the nation we’ve made I wanna sit under my own vine and fig tree A moment alone in the shade At home in this nation we’ve made One last time
One last time One last time
Though, in reviewing the incidents of my administration, I am unconscious of intentional error, I am nevertheless too sensible of my defects not to think it probable that I may have committed many errors. I shall also carry with me Though, in reviewing the incidents of my administration, I am unconscious of intentional error, I am nevertheless too sensible of my defects not to think it probable that I may have committed many errors. I shall also carry with me
The hope The hope That my country will View them with indulgence; And that After forty-five years of my life dedicated to its service with an upright zeal The faults of incompetent abilities will be Consigned to oblivion, as I myself must soon be to the mansions of rest I anticipate with pleasing expectation that retreat in which I promise myself to realize the sweet enjoyment of partaking, in the midst of my fellow-citizens, the benign influence of good laws Under a free government, the ever-favorite object of my heart, and the happy reward, as I trust Of our mutual cares, labors, and dangers.	WASHINGTON The hope View them with indulgence After forty-five years of my life dedicated to its service with an upright zeal Consigned to oblivion, as I myself must soon be to the mansions of rest I anticipate with pleasing expectation that retreat in which I promise myself to realize the sweet enjoyment of partaking, in the midst of my fellow-citizens, the benign influence of good laws Under a free government, the ever-favorite object of my heart, and the happy reward, as I trust Of our mutual cares, labors, and dangers.
One last time One last time
George Washington’s going home! George Washington’s going home!
Teach ‘em how to say goodbye Teach ‘em how to say goodbye
You and I You and I Going home History has its eyes on you We’re gonna teach ‘em how to Say goodbye! Teach ‘em how to Say goodbye! To say goodbye! Say goodbye! One last time!	COMPANY George Washington’s going home George Washington’s going home George Washington’s going home George Washington’s going home Teach ‘em how to say goodbye! Teach ‘em how! Say goodbye! Say goodbye! One last time!
They say They say George Washington’s yielding his power and stepping away ‘Zat true? I wasn’t aware that was something a person could do I’m perplexed Are they gonna keep on replacing whoever’s in charge? If so, who’s next? There’s nobody else in their country who looms quite as large… A sentinel whispers in King George’s ear John Adams?! I know him That can’t be That’s that little guy who spoke to me All those years ago What was it, eighty-five? That poor man, they’re gonna eat him alive! Oceans rise Empires fall Next to Washington, they all look small All alone Watch them run They will tear each other into pieces Jesus Christ, this will be fun! Da da da dat da dat da da da da ya da Da da da dat dat da ya daaaaa! “President John Adams” Good Luck
How does Hamilton the short-tempered How does Hamilton the short-tempered Protean creator of the Coast Guard Founder of the New York Post Ardently abuse his cab’net post Destroy his reputation? Welcome, folks, to
The Adams administration! The Adams administration!
Jefferson’s the runner-up, which makes him the Vice President Jefferson’s the runner-up, which makes him the Vice President
Washington can’t help you now, no more mister nice President Washington can’t help you now, no more mister nice President
Adams fires Hamilton Adams fires Hamilton Privately calls him “creole bastard” in his taunts
Say what?! Say what?!
Hamilton publishes his response Hamilton publishes his response
Sit down, John, you fat mother—BLEEP Sit down, John, you fat mother—BLEEP
Hamilton is out of control Hamilton is out of control
This is great! He’s out of power. He holds no office. And he just destroyed President John Adams, the only other significant member of his party This is great! He’s out of power. He holds no office. And he just destroyed President John Adams, the only other significant member of his party
Hamilton’s a host unto himself. As long as he can hold a pen, he’s a threat. Let’s let him know what we know Hamilton’s a host unto himself. As long as he can hold a pen, he’s a threat. Let’s let him know what we know
Mr. Vice President Mr. Vice President Mr. Madison Senator Burr What is this?
We have the check stubs. From separate accounts… We have the check stubs. From separate accounts…
Almost a thousand dollars, paid in different amounts… Almost a thousand dollars, paid in different amounts…
To a Mr. James Reynolds way back in To a Mr. James Reynolds way back in Seventeen ninety-one
Is that what you have? Are you done? Is that what you have? Are you done?
You are uniquely situated by virtue of your position— You are uniquely situated by virtue of your position—
Though ‘virtue’ is not a word I’d apply to this situation— Though ‘virtue’ is not a word I’d apply to this situation—
To seek financial gain, to stray from your sacred mission— To seek financial gain, to stray from your sacred mission—
And the evidence suggests you’ve engaged in speculation— And the evidence suggests you’ve engaged in speculation—
An immigrant embezzling our government funds— An immigrant embezzling our government funds—
I can almost see the headline, your career is done I can almost see the headline, your career is done
I hope you saved some money for your daughter and sons I hope you saved some money for your daughter and sons
Ya best g'wan run back where ya come from! Ya best g'wan run back where ya come from!
Ha! You don’t even know what you’re asking me to confess Ha! You don’t even know what you’re asking me to confess
Confess Confess
You have nothing. I don’t have to tell you anything at all You have nothing. I don’t have to tell you anything at all Unless
Unless Unless
If I can prove that I never broke the law If I can prove that I never broke the law Do you promise not to tell another soul what you saw?
No one else was in the room where it happened No one else was in the room where it happened
Is that a yes? Is that a yes?
Um, yes Um, yes
“Dear Sir, I hope this letter finds you in good health “Dear Sir, I hope this letter finds you in good health And in a prosperous enough position to put wealth In the pockets of people like me: down on their luck You see, it was my wife who you decided to—”
Whaaaat— Whaaaat—
She courted me She courted me Escorted me to bed and when she had me in a corner That’s when Reynolds extorted me For a sordid fee I paid him quarterly I may have mortally wounded my prospects But my papers are orderly! As you can see I kept a record of every check in my checkered History. Check it again against your list n’ see consistency I never spent a cent that wasn’t mine You sent the dogs after my scent, that’s fine Yes, I have reasons for shame But I have not committed treason and sullied my good name As you can see I have done nothing to provoke legal action Are my answers to your satisfaction?
My God My God
Gentlemen, let’s go Gentlemen, let’s go
So? So?
The people won't know what we know The people won't know what we know
Burr! Burr! How do I know you won’t use this against me The next time we go toe to toe?
Alexander, rumors only grow. And we both Alexander, rumors only grow. And we both Know what we know
In the eye of a hurricane In the eye of a hurricane There is quiet For just a moment A yellow sky When I was seventeen a hurricane Destroyed my town I didn’t drown I couldn’t seem to die I wrote my way out Wrote everything down far as I could see I wrote my way out I looked up and the town had its eyes on me They passed a plate around Total strangers Moved to kindness by my story Raised enough for me to book passage on a Ship that was New York bound… I wrote my way out of hell I wrote my way to revolution I was louder than the crack in the bell I wrote Eliza love letters until she fell I wrote about The Constitution and defended it well And in the face of ignorance and resistance I wrote financial systems into existence And when my prayers to God were met with indifference I picked up a pen, I wrote my own deliverance In the eye of a hurricane There is quiet For just a moment A yellow sky I was twelve when my mother died She was holding me We were sick and she was holding me I couldn’t seem to die
Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it… Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it…
Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it… Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it… Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it, wait…
I’ll write my way out… I’ll write my way out… Write ev’rything down, far as I can see… I’ll write my way out… Overwhelm them with honesty.
===
History has its eyes on you History has its eyes on you
This is the eye of the hurricane, this is the only This is the eye of the hurricane, this is the only Way I can protect my legacy…
Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it, wait… Wait for it, wait for it, wait for it, wait…
The Reynolds Pamphlet The Reynolds Pamphlet
The Reynolds Pamphlet The Reynolds Pamphlet
Have you read this? Have you read this?
Alexander Hamilton had a torrid affair Alexander Hamilton had a torrid affair And he wrote it down right there
Highlights! Highlights!
“The charge against me “The charge against me Is a connection with one James Reynolds! For purposes of Improper speculation My real crime is an Amorous connection with his wife For a considerable time With his knowing consent
James Reynolds! James Reynolds!
My real crime is an My real crime is an Amorous connection with his wife
Damn! Damn!
“I had frequent meetings with her “I had frequent meetings with her Most of them at my own house.”
At his own house! At his own house!
At his own house! At his own house!
Damn! Damn!
“Mrs. Hamilton with our children being absent “Mrs. Hamilton with our children being absent On a visit to her father.”
No… No…
Boooo! Boooo!
Have you read this? Have you read this?
Well, he’s never gon’ be President now Well, he’s never gon’ be President now
Never gon’ be President now Never gon’ be President now
Well, he’s never gon’ be President now Well, he’s never gon’ be President now
Never gon’ be President now Never gon’ be President now
He’s never gon’ be President now He’s never gon’ be President now
Never gon’ be President now Never gon’ be President now
That’s one less thing to worry about That’s one less thing to worry about
That’s one less thing to worry about! That’s one less thing to worry about!
I came as soon as I heard I came as soon as I heard
What?! What?!
Angelica— Angelica—
All the way from London?! All the way from London?! Damn
Angelica, thank God Angelica, thank God Someone who understands what I’m Struggling here to do
I’m not here for you I’m not here for you
Oooooh! Oooooh!
I know my sister like I know my own mind I know my sister like I know my own mind You will never find anyone as trusting or as kind I love my sister more than anything in this life I will choose her happiness over mine every time Put what we had aside I’m standing at her side You could never be satisfied God, I hope you’re satisfied
Well, he’s never gon’ be President now Well, he’s never gon’ be President now Well, he’s never gon’ be President now Well, he’s never gon’ be President now That’s one less thing to worry about.
Never gon’ be President now Never gon’ be President now Never gon’ be President now Never gon’ be President now That’s one less thing to worry about.
Hey! Hey! At least he was honest with our money! Hey! At least he was honest with our money!
Hey! Hey! At least I was honest with our money! Hey! At least he was honest with our money!	ENSEMBLE WOMEN Well he’s never gon’ be President now Well he’s never gon’ be President now Well he’s never gon’ be President now That’s one less thing to worry about.
Well he’s never gon’ be President now Well he’s never gon’ be President now Well he’s never gon’ be President now Well he’s never gon’ be President now.
That’s one less thing to worry about! That’s one less thing to worry about! The Reynolds Pamphlet
Have you read this? Have you read this? You ever see somebody ruin their own life?
His poor wife His poor wife
I saved every letter you wrote me I saved every letter you wrote me From the moment I read them I knew you were mine You said you were mine I thought you were mine Do you know what Angelica said When we saw your first letter arrive? She said “Be careful with that one, love He will do what it takes to survive.” You and your words flooded my senses Your sentences left me defenseless You built me palaces out of paragraphs You built cathedrals I’m re-reading the letters you wrote me I’m searching and scanning for answers In every line For some kind of sign And when you were mine The world seemed to Burn Burn You published the letters she wrote you You told the whole world how you brought This girl into our bed In clearing your name, you have ruined our lives Do you know what Angelica said When she read what you’d done? She said “You have married an Icarus He has flown too close to the sun.” You and your words, obsessed with your legacy… Your sentences border on senseless And you are paranoid in every paragraph How they perceive you You, you, you… I’m erasing myself from the narrative Let future historians wonder how Eliza Reacted when you broke her heart You have torn it all apart I am watching it Burn Watching it burn The world has no right to my heart The world has no place in our bed They don’t get to know what I said I’m burning the memories Burning the letters that might have redeemed you You forfeit all rights to my heart You forfeit the place in our bed You sleep in your office instead With only the memories Of when you were mine I hope that you burn
Meet the latest graduate of King’s College! Meet the latest graduate of King’s College! I prob’ly shouldn’t brag, but, dag, I amaze and astonish! The scholars say I got the same virtuosity and brains as my pops! The ladies say my brain’s not where the resemblance stops! I’m only nineteen but my mind is older Gotta be my own man, like my father, but bolder I shoulder his legacy with pride I used to hear him say That someday I would—
Blow us all away Blow us all away
Ladies, I’m lookin for a Mr. George Eacker Ladies, I’m lookin for a Mr. George Eacker Made a speech last week, our Fourth of July speaker He disparaged my father’s legacy in front of a crowd I can’t have that, I’m making my father proud
I saw him just up Broadway a couple of blocks I saw him just up Broadway a couple of blocks He was goin’ to see a play
Well, I’ll go visit his box Well, I’ll go visit his box
God, you’re a fox God, you’re a fox
And y’all look pretty good in ya’ frocks And y’all look pretty good in ya’ frocks How ‘bout when I get back, we all strip down to our socks?
Ok! Ok!
Blow us all away! Blow us all away!
George! George!
Shh Shh
George! George!
Shh! I’m tryin’ to watch the show! Shh! I’m tryin’ to watch the show!
Ya’ shoulda watched your mouth before you Ya’ shoulda watched your mouth before you Talked about my father though!
I didn’t say anything that wasn’t true I didn’t say anything that wasn’t true Your father’s a scoundrel, and so, it seems, are you
Ooooooooooh! Ooooooooooh!
It’s like that? It’s like that?
Yeah, I don’t fool around Yeah, I don’t fool around I’m not your little schoolboy friends
See you on the dueling ground See you on the dueling ground That is, unless you wanna step outside and go now
I know where to find you, piss off I know where to find you, piss off I’m watchin’ this show now
Pops, if you had only heard the shit he said about you Pops, if you had only heard the shit he said about you I doubt you would have let it slide and I was not about to—
Slow down Slow down
I came to ask you for advice. This is my very first duel I came to ask you for advice. This is my very first duel They don’t exactly cover this subject in boarding school
Did your friends attempt to negotiate a peace? Did your friends attempt to negotiate a peace?
He refused to apologize, we had to let the peace talks cease He refused to apologize, we had to let the peace talks cease
Where is this happening? Where is this happening?
Across the river, in Jersey Across the river, in Jersey
Everything is legal in New Jersey… Everything is legal in New Jersey…
Alright. So this is what you’re gonna do: Alright. So this is what you’re gonna do: Stand there like a man until Eacker is in front of you When the time comes, fire your weapon in the air This will put an end to the whole affair
But what if he decides to shoot? Then I’m a goner But what if he decides to shoot? Then I’m a goner
No. He’ll follow suit if he’s truly a man of honor No. He’ll follow suit if he’s truly a man of honor To take someone’s life, that is something you can’t shake Philip, your mother can’t take another heartbreak
Father— Father—
Promise me. You don’t want this Promise me. You don’t want this Young man’s blood on your conscience
Okay, I promise Okay, I promise
Come back home when you’re done Come back home when you’re done Take my guns. Be smart. Make me proud, son
My name is Philip My name is Philip I am a poet I’m a little nervous, but I can’t show it I’m sorry, I’m a Hamilton with pride You talk about my father, I cannot let it slide Mister Eacker! How was the rest of your show?
I’d rather skip the pleasantries I’d rather skip the pleasantries Let’s go Grab your pistol
Confer with your men Confer with your men The duel will commence after we count to ten
Count to ten! Count to ten!
Look ‘em in the eye, aim no higher Look ‘em in the eye, aim no higher Summon all the courage you require Then slowly and clearly aim your gun towards the sky—
One two three four One two three four
Five six seven— Five six seven—
Stay alive… Stay alive… Stay alive… Stay alive…
Where’s my son? Where’s my son? Is he alive?
Mr. Hamilton, come in. They brought him in a half an hour ago. He lost a lot of blood on the way over. Mr. Hamilton, come in. They brought him in a half an hour ago. He lost a lot of blood on the way over.
Yes. But you have to understand Yes. But you have to understand The bullet entered just above his hip and Lodged in his right arm
Can I see him please? Can I see him please?
I’m doing ev’rything I can, but the wound was I’m doing ev’rything I can, but the wound was Already infected when he arrived—
Philip Philip
Pa Pa I did exactly as you said, Pa I held my head up high
I know, I know. Shh I know, I know. Shh I know, I know Shh. I know you did Ev’rything just right Shh I know, I know I know, I know I know Save your strength and Stay alive…
High High Even before we got to ten— I was aiming for the sky I was aiming for the sky
Stay alive… Stay alive…
No! No!
Eliza Eliza
Is he breathing? Is he going to survive this?	ENSEMBLE MEN Is he breathing? Is he going to survive this?	ENSEMBLE MEN Stay alive…
Who did this, Alexander, did you know? Who did this, Alexander, did you know?
Mom, I’m so sorry for forgetting what you taught me Mom, I’m so sorry for forgetting what you taught me
My son— My son—
We played piano We played piano
I taught you piano I taught you piano
You would put your hands on mine You would put your hands on mine
You changed the melody every time You changed the melody every time
Ha. I would always change the line Ha. I would always change the line
Shh. I know, I know Shh. I know, I know
I would always change the line I would always change the line
I know, I know I know, I know
Un deux trois quatre Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept huit neuf Good Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept Huit neuf Sept huit neuf— Sept huit…
Un deux trois quatre Un deux trois quatre Cinq six sept huit neuf
Un deux trois… Un deux trois…
There are moments that the words don’t reach There are moments that the words don’t reach There is suffering too terrible to name You hold your child as tight as you can And push away the unimaginable The moments when you’re in so deep It feels easier to just swim down
The Hamiltons move uptown The Hamiltons move uptown And learn to live with the unimaginable
I spend hours in the garden I spend hours in the garden I walk alone to the store And it’s quiet uptown I never liked the quiet before I take the children to church on Sunday A sign of the cross at the door And I pray That never used to happen before
If you see him in the street, walking by If you see him in the street, walking by Himself, talking to himself, have pity
Philip, you would like it uptown Philip, you would like it uptown It’s quiet uptown
He is working through the unimaginable He is working through the unimaginable
His hair has gone grey. He passes every day His hair has gone grey. He passes every day They say he walks the length of the city
You knock me out, I fall apart You knock me out, I fall apart
Can you imagine? Can you imagine?
Look at where we are Look at where we are Look at where we started I know I don’t deserve you, Eliza But hear me out. That would be enough If I could spare his life If I could trade his life for mine He’d be standing here right now And you would smile, and that would be enough I don’t pretend to know The challenges we’re facing I know there’s no replacing what we’ve lost And you need time But I’m not afraid I know who I married Just let me stay here by your side That would be enough
If you see him in the street, walking by her If you see him in the street, walking by her Side, talking by her side, have pity
Eliza, do you like it uptown? It’s quiet uptown Eliza, do you like it uptown? It’s quiet uptown
He is trying to do the unimaginable He is trying to do the unimaginable See them walking in the park, long after dark Taking in the sights of the city
Look around, look around, Eliza Look around, look around, Eliza
They are trying to do the unimaginable They are trying to do the unimaginable
There are moments that the words don’t reach There are moments that the words don’t reach There is a grace too powerful to name We push away what we can never understand We push away the unimaginable They are standing in the garden Alexander by Eliza’s side She takes his hand
It’s quiet uptown It’s quiet uptown
Forgiveness. Can you imagine? Forgiveness. Can you imagine? Forgiveness. Can you imagine? If you see him in the street, walking by her Side, talking by her side, have pity They are going through the unimaginable
The election of 1800 The election of 1800
Can we get back to politics? Can we get back to politics?
Please? Please?
Yo. Ev’ry action has an equal, opposite reaction Yo. Ev’ry action has an equal, opposite reaction John Adams shat the bed. I love the guy, but he’s in traction Poor Alexander Hamilton? He is missing in action So now I’m facing—
Aaron Burr! Aaron Burr!
With his own faction With his own faction
He’s very attractive in the North. New Yorkers like his chances He’s very attractive in the North. New Yorkers like his chances
He’s not very forthcoming on any particular stances He’s not very forthcoming on any particular stances
Ask him a question: it glances off, he obfuscates, he dances Ask him a question: it glances off, he obfuscates, he dances
And they say I’m a Francophile: at least they know I know where France is! And they say I’m a Francophile: at least they know I know where France is!
Thomas that’s the problem, see, they see Burr as a less extreme you Thomas that’s the problem, see, they see Burr as a less extreme you
Ha! Ha!
You need to change course, a key endorsement might redeem you You need to change course, a key endorsement might redeem you
Who did you have in mind? Who did you have in mind?
Don’t laugh Don’t laugh
Who is it? Who is it?
You used to work on the same staff You used to work on the same staff
Whaaaat Whaaaat
It might be nice, it might be nice It might be nice, it might be nice To get Hamilton on your side
It might be nice, it might be nice It might be nice, it might be nice To get Hamilton on your side
Talk less! Talk less! Smile more! Don’t let ‘em know what you’re against or what you’re for! Shake hands with him! Charm her! It’s eighteen hundred, ladies, tell your husbands: vote for Burr!
Burr! Burr! Burr! Burr! Burr! Burr! Burr!
I don’t like Adams I don’t like Adams
Well, he’s gonna lose, that’s just defeatist Well, he’s gonna lose, that’s just defeatist
And Jefferson— And Jefferson—
In love with France! In love with France!
Yeah, he’s so elitist! Yeah, he’s so elitist!
I like that Aaron Burr! I like that Aaron Burr!
I can’t believe we’re here with him! I can’t believe we’re here with him!
He seems approachable…? He seems approachable…?
Like you could grab a beer with him! Like you could grab a beer with him!
Dear Mr. Hamilton: your fellow Fed’ralists would like to know how you’ll be voting Dear Mr. Hamilton: your fellow Fed’ralists would like to know how you’ll be voting
It’s quiet uptown It’s quiet uptown
Dear Mr. Hamilton: John Adams doesn’t stand a chance, so who are you promoting? Dear Mr. Hamilton: John Adams doesn’t stand a chance, so who are you promoting?
It’s quiet uptown It’s quiet uptown
Jefferson or Burr? Jefferson or Burr? We know it’s lose-lose Jefferson or Burr? But if you had to choose
Jefferson or Burr? Jefferson or Burr? We know it’s lose-lose Jefferson or Burr? But if you had to choose
Dear Mr. Hamilton: Dear Mr. Hamilton: John Adams doesn’t stand a chance so who are you promoting? But if you had to choose
Jefferson or Burr? Jefferson or Burr? We know it’s lose-lose Jefferson or Burr? But if you had to choose
Jefferson or Burr? Jefferson or Burr? We know it’s lose-lose Jefferson or Burr? But if you had to choose
Well, if it isn’t Aaron Burr. Sir! Well, if it isn’t Aaron Burr. Sir!
Alexander! Alexander!
You’ve created quite a stir, sir! You’ve created quite a stir, sir!
I’m going door to door! I’m going door to door!
You’re openly campaigning? You’re openly campaigning?
Sure! Sure!
That’s new That’s new
Honestly, it’s kind of draining Honestly, it’s kind of draining
Burr— Burr—
Sir! Sir!
Is there anything you wouldn’t do? Is there anything you wouldn’t do?
No. I’m chasing what I want No. I’m chasing what I want And you know what?
What? What?
I learned that from you I learned that from you
If you had to choose If you had to choose If you had to choose
It’s a tie! It’s a tie!
If you had to choose If you had to choose If you had to choose
It’s up to the delegates! It’s up to the delegates!
If you had to choose If you had to choose If you had to choose
It’s up to Hamilton! It’s up to Hamilton!
If you had to choose If you had to choose If you had to choose If you had to Choose Choose Choose!	MADISON/
Jefferson or Burr? Jefferson or Burr? Choose Choose Choose!
Jefferson or Burr? Jefferson or Burr? Choose Choose Choose!
Yo Yo
Oh! Oh!
The people are asking to hear my voice The people are asking to hear my voice
Oh! Oh!
For the country is facing a difficult choice For the country is facing a difficult choice
Oh! Oh!
And if you were to ask me who I’d promote— And if you were to ask me who I’d promote—
Oh! Oh!
—Jefferson has my vote —Jefferson has my vote
Oh! Oh!
I have never agreed with Jefferson once I have never agreed with Jefferson once
Oh! Oh!
We have fought on like seventy-five diff’rent fronts We have fought on like seventy-five diff’rent fronts
Oh! Oh!
But when all is said and all is done But when all is said and all is done Jefferson has beliefs. Burr has none
Oooooooooooooh Oooooooooooooh
Well, I’ll be damned Well, I’ll be damned Well, I’ll be damned
Hamilton’s on your side Hamilton’s on your side
Well, I’ll be damned Well, I’ll be damned Well, I’ll be damned
And? And?
You won in a landslide You won in a landslide
Congrats on a race well-run Congrats on a race well-run I did give you a fight
Uh-huh Uh-huh
I look forward to our partnership I look forward to our partnership
Our partnership? Our partnership?
As your vice-President As your vice-President
Ha. Yeah, right Ha. Yeah, right You hear this guy? Man openly campaigns against me, talkin’ bout, “I look forward to our partnership.”
It’s crazy that the guy who comes in second gets to be Vice President It’s crazy that the guy who comes in second gets to be Vice President
Yeah, you know what? We can change that. You know why? Yeah, you know what? We can change that. You know why?
Why? Why?
‘cuz I’m the President. Hey, Burr, when you see Hamilton, thank him for the endorsement ‘cuz I’m the President. Hey, Burr, when you see Hamilton, thank him for the endorsement
How does Hamilton How does Hamilton An arrogant Immigrant, orphan Bastard, whoreson Somehow endorse Thomas Jefferson, his enemy A man he’s despised since the beginning Just to keep me from winning? I wanna be in the room where it happens—
The room where it happens The room where it happens The room where it happens
You’ve kept me from— You’ve kept me from—
The room where it happens The room where it happens
For the last time For the last time Dear Alexander: I am slow to anger But I toe the line As I reckon with the effects Of your life on mine I look back on where I failed And in every place I checked The only common thread has been your disrespect Now you call me “amoral,” A “dangerous disgrace,” If you’ve got something to say Name a time and place Face to face I have the honor to be Your Obedient Servant A dot Burr
Mr. Vice President: Mr. Vice President: I am not the reason no one trusts you No one knows what you believe I will not equivocate on my opinion I have always worn it on my sleeve Even if I said what you think I said You would need to cite a more specific grievance Here’s an itemized list of thirty years of disagreements
Sweet Jesus Sweet Jesus
Hey, I have not been shy Hey, I have not been shy I am just a guy in the public eye Tryin’ to do my best for our republic I don’t wanna fight But I won’t apologize for doing what’s right I have the honor to be Your Obedient Servant A dot Ham
Careful how you proceed, good man Careful how you proceed, good man Intemperate indeed, good man Answer for the accusations I lay at your feet or Prepare to bleed, good man
Burr, your grievance is legitimate Burr, your grievance is legitimate I stand by what I said, every bit of it You stand only for yourself It’s what you do I can’t apologize because it’s true
Then stand, Alexander Then stand, Alexander Weehawken. Dawn Guns. Drawn
You’re on You’re on
I have the honor to be Your Obedient Servant I have the honor to be Your Obedient Servant
A dot Ham A dot Ham
A dot Burr A dot Burr
Alexander, come back to sleep Alexander, come back to sleep
I have an early meeting out of town I have an early meeting out of town
It’s still dark outside It’s still dark outside
I know. I just need to write something down I know. I just need to write something down
Why do you write like you’re running out of time? Why do you write like you’re running out of time?
Shhh Shhh
Come back to bed. That would be enough Come back to bed. That would be enough
I’ll be back before you know I’m gone I’ll be back before you know I’m gone
Come back to sleep Come back to sleep
This meeting’s at dawn This meeting’s at dawn
Well, I’m going back to sleep Well, I’m going back to sleep
Hey. Best of wives and best of women Hey. Best of wives and best of women
One two three four One two three four
Five six seven eight nine— Five six seven eight nine—
There are ten things you need to know There are ten things you need to know
Number one! Number one!
We rowed across the Hudson at dawn We rowed across the Hudson at dawn My friend, William P. Van Ness signed on as my—
Number two! Number two!
Hamilton arrived with his crew: Hamilton arrived with his crew: Nathaniel Pendleton and a doctor that he knew
Number three! Number three!
I watched Hamilton examine the terrain I watched Hamilton examine the terrain I wish I could tell you what was happ’ning in his brain This man has poisoned my political pursuits!
Most disputes die and no one shoots! Most disputes die and no one shoots! Number four!
Hamilton drew first position Hamilton drew first position Looking, to the world, like a man on a mission This is a soldier with a marksman’s ability The doctor turned around so he could have deniability
Five! Five!
Now I didn’t know this at the time Now I didn’t know this at the time But we were—
Near the same spot Near the same spot Your son died, is that Why—	HAMILTON Near the same spot My son died, is that Why—
Six! Six!
He examined his gun with such rigor? He examined his gun with such rigor? I watched as he methodically fiddled with the trigger
Seven! Seven!
Confession time? Here’s what I got: Confession time? Here’s what I got: My fellow soldiers’ll tell you I’m a terrible shot
Number eight! Number eight!
Your last chance to negotiate Your last chance to negotiate Send in your seconds, see if they can set the record straight
They won’t teach you this in your classes They won’t teach you this in your classes But look it up, Hamilton was wearing his glasses Why? If not to take deadly aim? It’s him or me, the world will never be the same I had only one thought before the slaughter: This man will not make an orphan of my daughter
Number nine! Number nine!
Look him in the eye, aim no higher Look him in the eye, aim no higher Summon all the courage you require Then count:
One two three four five six seven eight nine One two three four five six seven eight nine Number ten paces! Fire!—
I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory Is this where it gets me, on my feet, sev’ral feet ahead of me? I see it coming, do I run or fire my gun or let it be? There is no beat, no melody Burr, my first friend, my enemy Maybe the last face I ever see If I throw away my shot, is this how you’ll remember me? What if this bullet is my legacy? Legacy. What is a legacy? It’s planting seeds in a garden you never get to see I wrote some notes at the beginning of a song someone will sing for me America, you great unfinished symphony, you sent for me You let me make a difference A place where even orphan immigrants Can leave their fingerprints and rise up I’m running out of time. I’m running, and my time’s up Wise up. Eyes up I catch a glimpse of the other side Laurens leads a soldiers’ chorus on the other side My son is on the other side He’s with my mother on the other side Washington is watching from the other side Teach me how to say goodbye Rise up, rise up, rise up Eliza My love, take your time I’ll see you on the other side Raise a glass to freedom…
He aims his pistol at the sky— He aims his pistol at the sky—
Wait! Wait!
I strike him right between his ribs I strike him right between his ribs I walk towards him, but I am ushered away They row him back across the Hudson I get a drink
Aaaah Aaaah Aaaah Aaaah
I hear wailing in the streets I hear wailing in the streets
Aaaah Aaaah Aaaah Aaaah
Somebody tells me, “You’d better hide.” Somebody tells me, “You’d better hide.”
Aaaah Aaaah Aaaah Aaaah
They say They say
Angelica and Eliza— Angelica and Eliza—
Were both at his side when he died Were both at his side when he died Death doesn’t discriminate Between the sinners and the saints It takes and it takes and it takes History obliterates In every picture it paints It paints me and all my mistakes When Alexander aimed At the sky He may have been the first one to die But I’m the one who paid for it I survived, but I paid for it Now I’m the villain in your history I was too young and blind to see… I should’ve known I should’ve known The world was wide enough for both Hamilton and me The world was wide enough for both Hamilton and me
Let me tell you what I wish I’d known Let me tell you what I wish I’d known When I was young and dreamed of glory You have no control:
Who lives Who lives Who dies Who tells your story?
President Jefferson: President Jefferson:
I’ll give him this: his financial system is a I’ll give him this: his financial system is a Work of genius. I couldn’t undo it if I tried And I tried
Who lives Who lives Who dies Who tells your story?
President Madison: President Madison:
He took our country from bankruptcy to prosperity He took our country from bankruptcy to prosperity I hate to admit it, but he doesn’t get enough credit For all the credit he gave us
Who lives Who lives Who dies Who tells your story?
Every other founding father story gets told Every other founding father story gets told Every other founding father gets to grow old
But when you’re gone, who remembers your name? But when you’re gone, who remembers your name? Who keeps your flame?
Who tells your story? Who tells your story? Who tells your story?
Who tells your story? Who tells your story? Your story?
Eliza Eliza
I put myself back in the narrative I put myself back in the narrative
Eliza Eliza
I stop wasting time on tears I stop wasting time on tears I live another fifty years It’s not enough
Eliza Eliza
I interview every soldier who fought by your side I interview every soldier who fought by your side
She tells our story She tells our story
I try to make sense of your thousands of pages of writings I try to make sense of your thousands of pages of writings You really do write like you’re running out of—
Time Time
I rely on— I rely on—
Angelica Angelica
While she’s alive— While she’s alive—
We tell your story We tell your story
She is buried in Trinity Church She is buried in Trinity Church
Near you Near you
When I needed her most, she was right on— When I needed her most, she was right on—
Time Time
And I’m still not through And I’m still not through I ask myself, “What would you do if you had more—”
Time Time
The Lord, in his kindness The Lord, in his kindness He gives me what you always wanted He gives me more—
Time Time
I raise funds in D.C. for the Washington Monument I raise funds in D.C. for the Washington Monument
She tells my story She tells my story
I speak out against slavery I speak out against slavery You could have done so much more if you only had—
Time Time
And when my time is up, have I done enough? And when my time is up, have I done enough?
Will they tell our story?	COMPANY Will they tell our story?	COMPANY Will they tell your story?
Oh. Can I show you what I’m proudest of? Oh. Can I show you what I’m proudest of?
The orphanage The orphanage
I established the first private orphanage in New York City I established the first private orphanage in New York City
The orphanage The orphanage
I help to raise hundreds of children I help to raise hundreds of children I get to see them growing up
The orphanage The orphanage
In their eyes I see you, Alexander In their eyes I see you, Alexander I see you every—
Time Time
And when my time is up And when my time is up Have I done enough? Will they tell my story?
Will they tell your story? Will they tell your story?
Oh, I can’t wait to see you again Oh, I can’t wait to see you again It’s only a matter of—
Time Time
Will they tell your story? Will they tell your story? Who lives, who dies, who tells your story? Will they tell your story? Who lives, who dies—
Time… Time… Time… Time…
Who tells your story?